WWOX, the common chromosomal fragile site, FRA16D, cancer gene.
Gross chromosomal rearrangements and aneuploidy are among the most common somatic genomic abnormalities that occur during cancer initiation and progression, in particular in human solid tumor carcinogenesis. The loss of large chromosomal regions as consequence of gross rearrangements (e.g. deletions, monosomies, unbalanced translocations and mitotic recombination) have been traditionally associated with the existence of tumor suppressor genes within the areas affected by the loss of genetic material. The long arm of chromosome 16 was identified as being frequently associated with structural abnormalities in multiple neoplasias, that led us to focus attention on the detailed genetic dissection of this region resulting in the cloning of the putative tumor suppressor gene, WWOX (WW domain containing Oxidoreductase). Interestingly, the WWOX gene resides in the very same region as that of the common chromosomal fragile site 16D (FRA16D). The WWOX gene encodes a protein that contains two WW domains, involved in protein-protein interactions, and a short chain dehydrogenase (SDR) domain, possibly involved in sex-steroid metabolism. We have identified the WWOX WW domain ligand as the PPXY motif confirming the biochemical activity of this domain. WWOX normally resides in the Golgi and we will demonstrate that Golgi localization requires an intact SDR. Inactivation of the WWOX gene during tumorigenesis can occur by homozygous deletions and possibly mutation, however, aberrantly spliced forms of WWOX mRNA have been observed even when one allele is still intact. The aberrantly spliced mRNAs have deletions of the exons that encode the SDR and these WWOX protein isoforms display abnormal intracellular localization to the nucleus possibly functioning as dominant negative inhibitors of full length WWOX. Thus, generation of aberrant transcripts of WWOX may represent a novel mechanism to functionally inactivate WWOX without genomic alteration of the remaining allele. In this article we will review the cloning and identification of WWOX as the target of FRA16D. In addition, we will discuss the possible biochemical functions of WWOX and present evidence that ectopic WWOX expression inhibits tumor growth.