WWOX at the crossroads of cancer, metabolic syndrome related traits and CNS pathologies.
WWOX was cloned as a putative tumor suppressor gene mapping to chromosomal fragile site FRA16D. Deletions affecting WWOX accompanied by loss of expression are frequent in various epithelial cancers. Translocations and deletions affecting WWOX are also common in multiple myeloma and are associated with worse prognosis. Metanalysis of gene expression datasets demonstrates that low WWOX expression is significantly associated with shorter relapse-free survival in ovarian and breast cancer patients. Although somatic mutations affecting WWOX are not frequent, analysis of TCGA tumor datasets led to identifying 44 novel mutations in various tumor types. The highest frequencies of mutations were found in head and neck cancers and uterine and gastric adenocarcinomas. Mouse models of gene ablation led us to conclude that Wwox does not behave as a highly penetrant, classical tumor suppressor gene since its deletion is not tumorigenic in most models and its role is more likely to be of relevance in tumor progression rather than in initiation. Analysis of signaling pathways associated with WWOX expression confirmed previous in vivo and in vitro observations linking WWOX function with the TGF&#x3b2;/SMAD and WNT signaling pathways and with specific metabolic processes. Supporting these conclusions recently we demonstrated that indeed WWOX behaves as a modulator of TGF&#x3b2;/SMAD signaling by binding and sequestering SMAD3 in the cytoplasmic compartment. As a consequence progressive loss of WWOX expression in advanced breast cancer would contribute to the pro-metastatic effects resulting from TGF&#x3b2;/SMAD3 hyperactive signaling in breast cancer. Recently, GWAS and resequencing studies have linked the WWOX locus with familial dyslipidemias and metabolic syndrome related traits. Indeed, gene expression studies in liver conditional KO mice confirmed an association between WWOX expression and lipid metabolism. Finally, very recently the first human pedigrees with probands carrying homozygous germline loss of function WWOX mutations have been identified. These patients are characterized by severe CNS related pathology that includes epilepsy, ataxia and mental retardation. In summary, WWOX is a highly conserved and tightly regulated gene throughout evolution and when defective or deregulated the consequences are important and deleterious as demonstrated by its association not only with poor prognosis in cancer but also with other important human pathologies such as metabolic syndrome and CNS related pathologic conditions.