Regulation of histone H3K4 methylation in brain development and disease.
The growing list of mutations implicated in monogenic disorders of the developing brain includes at least seven genes (ARX, CUL4B, KDM5A, KDM5C, KMT2A, KMT2C, KMT2D) with loss-of-function mutations affecting proper regulation of histone H3 lysine 4 methylation, a chromatin mark which on a genome-wide scale is broadly associated with active gene expression, with its mono-, di- and trimethylated forms differentially enriched at promoter and enhancer and other regulatory sequences. In addition to these rare genetic syndromes, dysregulated H3K4 methylation could also play a role in the pathophysiology of some cases diagnosed with autism or schizophrenia, two conditions which on a genome-wide scale are associated with H3K4 methylation changes at hundreds of loci in a subject-specific manner. Importantly, the reported alterations for some of the diseased brain specimens included a widespread broadening of H3K4 methylation profiles at gene promoters, a process that could be regulated by the UpSET(KMT2E/MLL5)-histone deacetylase complex. Furthermore, preclinical studies identified maternal immune activation, parental care and monoaminergic drugs as environmental determinants for brain-specific H3K4 methylation. These novel insights into the epigenetic risk architectures of neurodevelopmental disease will be highly relevant for efforts aimed at improved prevention and treatment of autism and psychosis spectrum disorders. Mutations in the Aristaless-related homeobox gene (ARX) have been causally linked to a variety of neurological conditions, particularly, infantile spasms syndrome. ARX is a developmentally regulated homeobox transcription factor with expression both in the ganglionic eminence and the cortical ventricular zone early in development. Postnatally, the expression pattern is restricted to GABAergic neurons in the cortex and basal ganglia. During development, ARX functions primarily as a transcriptional repressor: modulating migration and fate specification of interneurons and controlling ventricular zone proliferation. How loss of function of ARX leads to an epilepsy phenotype is poorly understood. Three genetically modified mice lines have been generated to address this issue. These models each develop epilepsy and all have changes in interneuron subtype patterns strongly implicating alterations of interneuron development as a cause of epilepsy. Analysis of these models will both further the molecular understanding of the function of ARX and allow dissection of the pathophysiological properties of the ARX related epilepsies. This chapter will review the current knowledge of the function of Arx, the Arx mouse models, and discuss how these models can lead to a better understanding of the role of interneuron loss in the development of epilepsy during early childhood.