Dental Follicle Cells Participate in Tooth Eruption via the RUNX2-MiR-31-SATB2 Loop.
Cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD) is characterized by the runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) mutation, which results in delayed tooth eruption due to disturbed functions of dental follicle. Accumulating evidence has revealed a key regulatory circuit, including RUNX2, miR-31, and special AT-rich binding protein 2 (SATB2) acting in concert in mesenchymal stem cell homeostasis and functions. However, whether such a regulatory loop works in dental follicle cells (DFCs) remains unknown. Herein, we investigated the roles of RUNX2-miR-31-SATB2 in DFCs from patients with CCD (DFCs-CCD) to advance our understanding regarding physical tooth eruption. We identified a novel mutation on exon 5 (c.634T>G, p.T212P) in RUNX2 via exome sequencing in the CCD patient with typical clinical presentations. Compared with DFCs from healthy donors, DFCs-CCD displayed significantly lower osteogenic, osteoclast-inductive, and matrix-degrading capacities and had lower RUNX2 (a transcriptional inhibitor of miR-31), higher miR-31, and downregulated SATB2. Lower ratios of RANKL/OPG and RANKL/RANK, as well as decreased expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2), would lead to inactivation of osteoclasts and suppression of bone matrix remodeling in DFCs-CCD. Furthermore, the roles of the RUNX2-miR-31-SATB2 loop in DFCs-CCD were revealed by endogenous miR-31 knockdown, which resulted in increased SATB2 and RUNX2, as well as osteoclast-inductive and matrix degradation capacities. Conversely, SATB2, RUNX2, MMP9, MMP2, and osteoclast-inductive factors expression declined upon ectopic miR-31 overexpression in normal DFCs. Importantly, neonatal mice with in vivo siRUNX2 delivery exhibited less activated osteoclasts around dental follicles and delayed tooth eruption. Together, these results suggest that RUNX2 mutation/haploinsufficiency disturbs osteoclast-inductive signaling in DFCs, which may be responsible for delayed tooth eruption in CCD patients. Manipulation of the RUNX2-miR-31-SATB2 loop may be a potential way to facilitate tooth eruption in CCD patients.