SCN1B-linked early infantile developmental and epileptic encephalopathy.
OBJECTIVE: Patients with Early Infantile Epileptic Encephalopathy (EIEE) 52 have inherited, homozygous variants in the gene SCN1B, encoding the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) &#x3b2;1 and &#x3b2;1B non-pore-forming subunits. METHODS: Here, we describe the detailed electroclinical features of a biallelic SCN1B patient with a previously unreported variant, p.Arg85Cys. RESULTS: The female proband showed hypotonia from birth, multifocal myoclonus at 2.5&#xa0;months, then focal seizures and myoclonic status epilepticus (SE) at 3&#xa0;months, triggered by fever. Auditory brainstem response (ABR) showed bilateral hearing loss. Epilepsy was refractory and the patient had virtually no development. Administration of fenfluramine resulted in a significant reduction in seizure frequency and resolution of SE episodes that persisted after a 2-year follow-up. The patient phenotype is more compatible with early infantile developmental and epileptic encephalopathy (DEE) than with typical Dravet syndrome (DS), as previously diagnosed for other patients with homozygous SCN1B variants. Biochemical and electrophysiological analyses of the SCN1B variant expressed in heterologous cells showed cell surface expression of the mutant &#x3b2;1 subunit, similar to wild-type (WT), but with loss of normal &#x3b2;1-mediated modification of human Nav 1.1-generated sodium current, suggesting that SCN1B-p.Arg85Cys is a loss-of-function (LOF) variant. INTERPRETATION: Importantly, a review of the literature in light of our results suggests that the term, early infantile developmental and epileptic encephalopathy, is more appropriate than either EIEE or DS to describe biallelic SCN1B patients. The genes SCN1A, SCN2A, and SCN8A encode the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) &#x3b1;-subunits Nav1.1, Nav1.2, and Nav1.6, respectively. Dravet syndrome is eat the severe end of the disease spectrum caused by SCN1A variants, and Nav1.1 haploinsufficiency in parvalbumin-positive inhibitory neurons has been proposed as a primary cause for the disease. Nav1.2 is predominantly expressed in excitatory neurons in neocortex and hippocampus. SCN2A is the gene with the largest number of de novo variants in patients with autism spectrum disorder and/or intellectual disability, and those are mainly truncations. SCN2A variants also appear in patients with epileptic encephalopathies, but those are mostly missense. Variants of SCN8A have been reported in a number of patients with variable epilepsies. Gain-of-function missense variants are the most common in SCN8A developmental and epileptic encephalopathy associated with motor manifestations such as ataxia and choreoathetosis in the most severe cases. SCN1B encodes the non-pore-forming VGSC&#x3b2;1 and &#x3b2;1B subunits, which are multifunctional channel regulatory molecules expressed in excitatory and inhibitory neurons. SCN1B variants are reported in patients with epilepsies of multiple etiologies. In vitro and animal model studies have provided critical insights into pathological mechanisms of the diseases caused by genetic variation in these genes.