Hypoxia-dependent expression of MAP17 coordinates the Warburg effect to tumor growth in hepatocellular carcinoma.
BACKGROUND: Reprogrammed glucose metabolism, also known as the Warburg effect, which is essential for tumor progression, is regarded as a hallmark of cancer. MAP17, a small 17-kDa non-glycosylated membrane protein, is frequently&#xa0;dysregulated in human cancers. However, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains largely unknown. METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was used to analyze the expression pattern of MAP17 in HCC. Loss-of-function and gain-of-function studies were performed to investigate the oncogenic roles of MAP17 in vitro and in vivo. RNA sequencing, co-immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence and western blotting were used to study the molecular mechanism of MAP17 affecting the tumor growth and glycolytic phenotype of HCC. RESULTS: An integrative analysis showed that MAP17, a small 17-kDa non-glycosylated membrane protein, is significantly related to the glycolytic phenotype of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Firstly, we found that MAP17 expression is hypoxia-dependent and predicts a poor prognosis in HCC. Genetic silencing of MAP17 reduced the rate of glucose uptake, lactate release, extracellular acidification rate, and expression of glycolytic genes. Ectopic expression of wild type MAP17 but not its PDZ binding domain mutant MAP17-PDZm increased tumor glycolysis. Further research showed that MAP17 knockdown markedly retarded in vivo tumor growth in HCC. Importantly, attenuation of tumor glycolysis by galactose largely hijacked the growth-promoting role of MAP17 in HCC cells. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that MAP17 knockdown leads to transcriptional changes in the ROS metabolic process, cell surface receptor signaling, cell communication, mitotic cell cycle progression, and regulation of cell differentiation. Mechanistically, MAP17 exerted an increased tumoral phenotype associated with an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS), which activates downstream effectors AKT and HIF1&#x3b1; to enhance the Warburg effect. In HCC clinical samples, there is a close correlation between MAP17 expression and HIF1&#x3b1; or phosphorated level of AKT. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that MAP17 is a novel glycolytic regulator, and targeting MAP17/ROS pathway may be an alternative approach for the prevention and treatment of HCC.