The Neurological Manifestations of Phelan-McDermid Syndrome.
Phelan-McDermid syndrome (PMS) is a genetic disorder, caused by haploinsufficiency of the SHANK3 gene on chromosome 22q13.3. PMS is characterized by neurobehavioral symptoms and signs including intellectual disability, speech and language impairment, autism spectrum disorder (ASD), hypotonia, and other motor abnormalities. In the brain, SHANK3 is expressed in neurons, especially in the synapse, and encodes a master scaffolding protein that forms a key framework in the postsynaptic density of glutamatergic synapses. Mutations in SHANK3 have also been identified in individuals with ASD, intellectual deficiency (ID), and schizophrenia. Shank3 deficient mice have defects in basal glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the hippocampus, and in synaptic transmission plasticity, including deficits in long-term potentiation, and show behavioral deficits compatible with the clinical manifestations of PMS. The PMS phenotype varies between affected individuals, but ID and speech and language impairment are present in all cases. ASD is present in a great majority of these individuals. Neurological examination demonstrates hypotonia and abnormalities of motor coordination, visual motor coordination, and gait in the majority of affected individuals. Sleep disturbances and increased pain tolerance are frequent parental complaints. Seizures and epilepsy are common, affecting more than 40% of individuals. Brain magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities include corpus callosum hypoplasia, delayed myelination and white matter abnormalities, dilated ventricles, and arachnoid cysts. Recent advanced imaging anatomic studies including diffusion tensor imaging, point to abnormal brain connectivity. The natural history of the syndrome is not yet fully known, but some individuals with PMS have a later onset of psychiatric illnesses including bipolar disease, accompanied by functional and neurological regression. Individuals with the syndrome are treated symptomatically. Advances in understanding the pathophysiology of this syndrome and the generation of animal models have raised opportunities for a biological cure for PMS. A pilot clinical trial with insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) showed positive effects on some behavioral core symptoms.