T-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia: Biomarkers and Their Clinical Usefulness.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALL) are immature lymphoid tumors localizing in the bone marrow, mediastinum, central nervous system, and lymphoid organs. They account for 10-15% of pediatric and about 25% of adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cases. It is a widely heterogeneous disease that is caused by the co-occurrence of multiple genetic abnormalities, which are acquired over time, and once accumulated, lead to full-blown leukemia. Recurrently affected genes deregulate pivotal cell processes, such as cycling (CDKN1B, RB1, TP53), signaling transduction (RAS pathway, IL7R/JAK/STAT, PI3K/AKT), epigenetics (PRC2 members, PHF6), and protein translation (RPL10, CNOT3). A remarkable role is played by NOTCH1 and CDKN2A, as they are altered in more than half of the cases. The activation of the NOTCH1 signaling affects thymocyte specification and development, while CDKN2A haploinsufficiency/inactivation, promotes cell cycle progression. Among recurrently involved oncogenes, a major role is exerted by T-cell-specific transcription factors, whose deregulated expression interferes with normal thymocyte development and causes a stage-specific differentiation arrest. Hence, TAL and/or LMO deregulation is typical of T-ALL with a mature phenotype (sCD3 positive) that of TLX1, NKX2-1, or TLX3, of cortical T-ALL (CD1a positive); HOXA and MEF2C are instead over-expressed in subsets of Early T-cell Precursor (ETP; immature phenotype) and early T-ALL. Among immature T-ALL, genomic alterations, that cause BCL11B transcriptional deregulation, identify a specific genetic subgroup. Although comprehensive cytogenetic and molecular studies have shed light on the genetic background of T-ALL, biomarkers are not currently adopted in the diagnostic workup of T-ALL, and only a limited number of studies have assessed their clinical implications. In this review, we will focus on recurrent T-ALL abnormalities that define specific leukemogenic pathways and on oncogenes/oncosuppressors that can serve as diagnostic biomarkers. Moreover, we will discuss how the complex genomic profile of T-ALL can be used to address and test innovative/targeted therapeutic options. CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: MEF2C-related disorder is characterized by moderate-to-profound developmental delay with subsequent intellectual disability, hypotonia, dysmorphic features, seizures, neurobehavioral manifestations (autistic features, sleep issues, stereotypic movements particularly of the hands), vision issues, and cardiac manifestations. Individuals who are able to speak typically only use a few words and are not able to communicate in sentences. Approximately half of individuals are unable to walk independently; however, many are able to walk with some assistance. DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of MEF2C-related disorder is established in a proband by identification of a heterozygous pathogenic variant in MEF2C by molecular genetic testing. MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Developmental and educational services; treatment of gait abnormalities per orthopedist, physical medicine and rehabilitation specialist, and/or physical or occupational therapist; feeding support as needed; standard treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease, constipation, and seizures; treatment of cardiac manifestations per cardiologist; treatment of refractive errors and strabismus per ophthalmologist; more complex findings or treatment per ophthalmic subspecialist; antibiotics as needed for recurrent respiratory infections and recurrent otitis media; referral to otolaryngologist for tympanostomy tubes as needed for recurrent otitis; family and social work support. Surveillance: At each visit, assess developmental progress, educational needs, gait issues, motor abnormalities, growth parameters, nutritional status, safety of oral intake, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and constipation; assess new or changing seizures, tone, and movement disorders at each visit or per neurologist; annual behavioral assessment; cardiology assessment per cardiologist; ophthalmology evaluation for strabismus and refractive errors per ophthalmologist; assessment for recurrent respiratory infections and/or recurrent otitis media annually or as needed; hearing evaluation in those with recurrent otitis annually or as needed; assess family needs at each visit. GENETIC COUNSELING: MEF2C-related disorder is an autosomal dominant disorder. Most probands reported to date with MEF2C-related disorder whose parents have undergone molecular genetic testing have the disorder as the result of a de novo pathogenic variant. Rarely, a proband diagnosed with MEF2C-related disorder has the disorder as the result of a pathogenic variant inherited from an affected heterozygous parent or an unaffected mosaic parent. Each child of an individual with MEF2C-related disorder has a 50% chance of inheriting the pathogenic variant. Once the MEF2C pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible.