Is impaired energy production a novel insight into the pathogenesis of pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy due to biallelic variants in ALDH7A1?
BACKGROUND: Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE) is due to biallelic variants in ALDH7A1 (PDE-ALDH7A1). ALDH7A1 encodes &#x3b1;-aminoadipic semialdehyde dehydrogenase in lysine catabolism. We investigated the gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) metabolism and energy production pathways in human PDE-ALDH7A1 and its knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish model. METHODS: We measured GABA pathway, and tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolites and electron transport chain activities in patients with PDE-ALDH7A1 and in knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish. RESULTS: We report results of three patients with PDE-ALDH7A1: low paired complex I+II and complex II+III and individual complex IV activities in muscle biopsy in patient 1 (likely more severe phenotype); significantly elevated CSF glutamate in the GABA pathway and elevated CSF citrate, succinate, isocitrate and &#x3b1;-ketoglutarate in the TCA cycle in patient 3 (likely more severe phenotype); and normal CSF GABA pathway and TCA cycle metabolites on long-term pyridoxine therapy in patient 2 (likely milder phenotype). All GABA pathway metabolites (&#x3b3;-hydroxybutyrate, glutamine, glutamate, total GABA, succinic semialdehyde) and TCA cycle metabolites (citrate, malate, fumarate, isocitrate, lactate) were significantly low in the homozygous knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish compared to the wildtype zebrafish. Homozygous knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish had decreased electron transport chain enzyme activities compared to wildtype zebrafish. DISCUSSION: We report impaired electron transport chain function, accumulation of glutamate in the central nervous system and TCA cycle dysfunction in human PDE-ALDH7A1 and abnormal GABA pathway, TCA cycle and electron transport chain in knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish. Central nervous system glutamate toxicity and impaired energy production may play important roles in the disease neuropathogenesis and severity in human PDE-ALDH7A1.