An in vitro model of glucose transporter 1 deficiency syndrome at the blood-brain barrier using induced pluripotent stem cells.
Glucose is an important source of energy for the central nervous system. Its uptake at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is mostly mediated via glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), a facilitated transporter encoded by the SLC2A1 gene. GLUT1 Deficiency Syndrome (GLUT1DS) is a haploinsufficiency characterized by mutations in the SLC2A1 gene, resulting in impaired glucose uptake at the BBB and clinically characterized by epileptic seizures and movement disorder. A major limitation is an absence of in vitro models of the BBB reproducing the disease. This study aimed to characterize an in vitro model of GLUT1DS using human pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Two GLUT1DS clones were generated (GLUT1-iPSC) from their original parental clone iPS(IMR90)-c4 by CRISPR/Cas9 and differentiated into brain microvascular endothelial cells (iBMECs). Cells were characterized in terms of SLC2A1 expression, changes in the barrier function, glucose uptake and metabolism, and angiogenesis. GLUT1DS iPSCs and iBMECs showed comparable phenotype to their parental control, with exception of reduced GLUT1 expression at the protein level. Although no major disruption in the barrier function was reported in the two clones, a significant reduction in glucose uptake accompanied by an increase in glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration was reported in both GLUT1DS-iBMECs. Finally, impaired angiogenic features were reported in such clones compared to the parental clone. Our study provides the first documented characterization of GLUT1DS-iBMECs generated by CRISPR-Cas9, suggesting that GLUT1 truncation appears detrimental to brain angiogenesis and brain endothelial bioenergetics, but maybe not be detrimental to iBMECs differentiation and barriergenesis. Our future direction is to further characterize the functional outcome of such truncated product, as well as its impact on other cells of the neurovascular unit.