Identification of miRNA-mediated gene regulatory networks in L-methionine exposure counteracts cocaine-conditioned place preference in mice.
Background and Aims: Methionine has been proven to inhibit addictive behaviors of cocaine dependence. This study aimed to identify the potential mechanisms of MET relating to its inhibitory effects on cocaine induced cellular and behavioral changes. Methods: MRNA and miRNA high-throughput sequencing of the prefrontal cortex in a mouse model of cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP) combined with L-methionine was performed. Differentially expressed miRNAs (DE-miRNAs) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) regulated by cocaine and inhibited by L-methionine were identified. DEGs were mapped to STRING database to construct a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Then, the identified DEGs were subjected to the DAVID webserver for functional annotation. Finally, miRNA-mRNA regulatory network and miRNA-mRNA-TF regulatory networks were established to screen key DE-miRNAs and coregulation network in Cytoscape. Results: Sequencing data analysis showed that L-methionine reversely regulated genes and miRNAs affected by cocaine. Pathways associated with drug addiction only enriched in CS-down with MC-up genes targeted by DE-miRNAs including GABAergic synapse, Glutamatergic synapse, Circadian entrainment, Axon guidance and Calcium signaling pathway. Drug addiction associated network was formed of 22 DEGs including calcium channel (Cacna1c, Cacna1e, Cacna1g and Cacng8), ephrin receptor genes (Ephb6 and Epha8) and ryanodine receptor genes (Ryr1 and Ryr2). Calcium channel gene network were identified as a core gene network modulated by L-methionine in response to cocaine dependence. Moreover, it was predicted that Grin1 and Fosb presented in TF-miRNA-mRNA coregulation network with a high degree of interaction as hub genes and interacted calcium channels. Conclusion: These identified key genes, miRNA and coregulation network demonstrated the efficacy of L-methionine in counteracting the effects of cocaine CPP. To a certain degree, it may provide some hints to better understand the underlying mechanism on L-methionine in response to cocaine abuse.