Autism- and epilepsy-associated EEF1A2 mutations lead to translational dysfunction and altered actin bundling.
UNLABELLED: Protein synthesis is a fundamental cellular process in neurons that is essential for synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation. Here, we describe our investigations of a neuron- and muscle-specific translation factor, e ukaryotic E longation F actor 1a2 (eEF1A2), which when mutated in patients results in autism, epilepsy, and intellectual disability. We characterize three most common EEF1A2 patient mutations, G70S, E122K, and D252H, and demonstrate that all three mutations decrease de novo protein synthesis and elongation rates in HEK293 cells. In mouse cortical neurons, the EEF1A2 mutations not only decrease de novo protein synthesis, but also alter neuronal morphology, regardless of endogenous levels of eEF1A2, indicating that the mutations act via a toxic gain of function. We also show that eEF1A2 mutant proteins display increased tRNA binding and decreased actin bundling activity, suggesting that these mutations disrupt neuronal function by decreasing tRNA availability and altering the actin cytoskeleton. More broadly, our findings are consistent with the idea that eEF1A2 acts as a bridge between translation and the actin skeleton, which is essential for proper neuron development and function. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: E ukaryotic E longation F actor 1A2 (eEF1A2) is a muscle- and neuron-specific translation factor responsible for bringing charge tRNAs to the elongating ribosome. Why neurons express this unique translation factor is unclear; however, it is known that mutations in EEF1A2 cause severe drug-resistant epilepsy, autism and neurodevelopmental delay. Here, we characterize the impact of three common disease-causing mutations in EEF1A2 and demonstrate that they cause decreased protein synthesis via reduced translation elongation, increased tRNA binding, decreased actin bundling activity, as well as altered neuronal morphology. We posit that eEF1A2 serves as a bridge between translation and the actin cytoskeleton, linking these two processes that are essential for neuronal function and plasticity.