Targeted blockade of aberrant sodium current in a stem cell-derived neuron model of SCN3A encephalopathy.
Missense variants in SCN3A encoding the voltage-gated sodium (Na+) channel &#x3b1; subunit Nav1.3 are associated with SCN3A-related neurodevelopmental disorder (SCN3A-NDD), a spectrum of disease that includes epilepsy and malformation of cortical development. How genetic variation in SCN3A leads to pathology remains unclear, as prior electrophysiological work on disease-associated variants has been performed exclusively in heterologous cell systems. To further investigate the mechanisms of SCN3A-NDD pathogenesis, we used CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing to modify a control human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) line to express the recurrent de novo missense variant SCN3A c.2624T>C (p.Ile875Thr). With the established Ngn2 rapid induction protocol, we generated glutamatergic forebrain-like neurons (iNeurons), which we showed to express SCN3A mRNA and Nav1.3-mediated Na+ currents. We performed detailed whole-cell patch clamp recordings to determine the effect of the SCN3A-p.Ile875Thr variant on endogenous Na+ currents in, and intrinsic excitability of, human neurons. Compared to control iNeurons, variant-expressing iNeurons exhibit markedly increased slowly-inactivating/persistent Na+ current, abnormal firing patterns with paroxysmal bursting and plateau-like potentials with action potential failure, and a hyperpolarized voltage threshold for action potential generation. We then validated these findings using a separate iPSC line generated from a patient harbouring the SCN3A-p.Ile875Thr variant compared to a corresponding CRISPR-corrected isogenic control line. Finally, we found that application of the Nav1.3-selective blocker ICA-121431 normalizes action potential threshold and aberrant firing patterns in SCN3A-p.Ile1875Thr iNeurons; in contrast, consistent with action as a Na+ channel blocker, ICA-121431 decreases excitability of control iNeurons. Our findings demonstrate that iNeurons can model the effects of genetic variation in SCN3A yet reveal a complex relationship between gain-of-function at the level of the ion channel versus impact on neuronal excitability. Given the transient expression of SCN3A in the developing human nervous system, selective blockade or suppression of Nav1.3-containing Na+ channels could represent a therapeutic approach towards SCN3A-NDD.