Rett and Rett-related disorders: Common mechanisms for shared symptoms?
Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in the methyl-CpG binding protein-2 (MeCP2) gene that is characterized by epilepsy, intellectual disability, autistic features, speech deficits, and sleep and breathing abnormalities. Neurologically, patients with all three disorders display microcephaly, aberrant dendritic morphology, reduced spine density, and an imbalance of excitatory/inhibitory signaling. Loss-of-function mutations in the cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) and FOXG1 genes also cause similar behavioral and neurobiological defects and were referred to as congenital or variant Rett syndrome. The relatively recent realization that CDKL5 deficiency disorder (CDD), FOXG1 syndrome, and Rett syndrome are distinct neurodevelopmental disorders with some distinctive features have resulted in separate focus being placed on each disorder with the assumption that distinct molecular mechanisms underlie their pathogenesis. However, given that many of the core symptoms and neurological features are shared, it is likely that the disorders share some critical molecular underpinnings. This review discusses the possibility that deregulation of common molecules in neurons and astrocytes plays a central role in key behavioral and neurological abnormalities in all three disorders. These include KCC2, a chloride transporter, vGlut1, a vesicular glutamate transporter, GluD1, an orphan-glutamate receptor subunit, and PSD-95, a postsynaptic scaffolding protein. We propose that reduced expression or activity of KCC2, vGlut1, PSD-95, and AKT, along with increased expression of GluD1, is involved in the excitatory/inhibitory that represents a key aspect in all three disorders. In addition, astrocyte-derived brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), and inflammatory cytokines likely affect the expression and functioning of these molecules resulting in disease-associated abnormalities.