Targeting NPM1 Epigenetically Promotes Postinfarction Cardiac Repair by Reprogramming Reparative Macrophage Metabolism.
BACKGROUND: Reparative macrophages play a crucial role in limiting excessive fibrosis and promoting cardiac repair after myocardial infarction (MI), highlighting the significance of enhancing their reparative phenotype for wound healing. Metabolic adaptation orchestrates the phenotypic transition of macrophages; however, the precise mechanisms governing metabolic reprogramming of cardiac reparative macrophages remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the role of NPM1 (nucleophosmin 1) in the metabolic and phenotypic shift of cardiac macrophages in the context of MI and explored the therapeutic effect of targeting NPM1 for ischemic tissue repair. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were obtained from healthy individuals and patients with MI to explore NPM1 expression and its correlation with prognostic indicators. Through RNA sequencing, metabolite profiling, histology, and phenotype analyses, we investigated the role of NPM1 in postinfarct cardiac repair using macrophage-specific NPM1 knockout mice. Epigenetic experiments were conducted to study the mechanisms underlying metabolic reprogramming and phenotype transition of NPM1-deficient cardiac macrophages. The therapeutic efficacy of antisense oligonucleotide and inhibitor targeting NPM1 was then assessed in wild-type mice with MI. RESULTS: NPM1 expression was upregulated in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with MI that closely correlated with adverse prognostic indicators of MI. Macrophage-specific NPM1 deletion reduced infarct size, promoted angiogenesis, and suppressed tissue fibrosis, in turn improving cardiac function and protecting against adverse cardiac remodeling after MI. Furthermore, NPM1 deficiency boosted the reparative function of cardiac macrophages by shifting macrophage metabolism from the inflammatory glycolytic system to oxygen-driven mitochondrial energy production. The oligomeric NPM1 recruited histone demethylase KDM5b to the promoter of Tsc1 (TSC complex subunit 1), the mTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex inhibitor, reduced histone H3K4me3 modification, and inhibited TSC1 expression, which then facilitated mTOR-related inflammatory glycolysis and antagonized the reparative function of cardiac macrophages. The in vivo administration of antisense oligonucleotide targeting NPM1 or oligomerization inhibitor NSC348884 substantially ameliorated tissue injury and enhanced cardiac recovery in mice after MI. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings uncover the key role of epigenetic factor NPM1 in impeding postinfarction cardiac repair by remodeling metabolism pattern and impairing the reparative function of cardiac macrophages. NPM1 may serve as a promising prognostic biomarker and a valuable therapeutic target for heart failure after MI.