ATP1A3 Disease Spectrum Includes Paroxysmal Weakness and Encephalopathy Not Triggered by Fever.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Heterozygous pathogenic variants in ATP1A3, which encodes the catalytic alpha subunit of neuronal Na+/K+-ATPase, cause primarily neurologic disorders with widely variable features that can include episodic movement deficits. One distinctive presentation of ATP1A3-related disease is recurrent fever-triggered encephalopathy. This can occur with generalized weakness and/or ataxia and is described in the literature as relapsing encephalopathy with cerebellar ataxia. This syndrome displays genotype-phenotype correlation with variants at p.R756 causing temperature sensitivity of ATP1A3. We report clinical and in vitro functional evidence for a similar phenotype not triggered by fever but associated with protein loss-of-function. METHODS: We describe the phenotype of an individual with de novo occurrence of a novel heterozygous ATP1A3 variant, NM_152296.5:c.388_390delGTG; p.(V130del). We confirmed the pathogenicity of p.V130del by cell survival complementation assay in HEK293 cells and then characterized its functional impact on enzymatic ion transport and extracellular sodium binding by two-electrode voltage clamp electrophysiology in Xenopus oocytes. To determine whether variant enzymes reach the cell surface, we surface-biotinylated oocytes expressing N-tagged ATP1A3. RESULTS: The proband is a 7-year-old boy who has had 2 lifetime episodes of paroxysmal weakness, encephalopathy, and ataxia not triggered by fever. He had speech regression and intermittent hand tremors after the second episode but otherwise spontaneously recovered after episodes and is at present developmentally appropriate. The p.V130del variant was identified on clinical trio exome sequencing, which did not reveal any other variants possibly associated with the phenotype. p.V130del eliminated ATP1A3 function in cell survival complementation assay. In Xenopus oocytes, p.V130del variant Na+/K+-ATPases showed complete loss of ion transport activity and marked abnormalities of extracellular Na+ binding at room temperature. Despite this clear loss-of-function effect, surface biotinylation under the same conditions revealed that p.V130del variant enzymes were still present at the oocyte's cell membrane. DISCUSSION: This individual's phenotype expands the clinical spectrum of ATP1A3-related recurrent encephalopathy to include presentations without fever-triggered events. The total loss of ion transport function with p.V130del, despite enzyme presence at the cell membrane, indicates that haploinsufficiency can cause relatively mild phenotypes in ATP1A3-related disease.