Preliminary Study on Clinical Characteristics and Pathogenesis of IQSEC2 Mutations Patients.
BACKGROUND: The IQ motif and Sec7 domain ArfGEF 2 (IQSEC2), an X-linked gene that encodes the BRAG1 protein, is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the ADP ribosylation factor (ARF) protein family in the small guanosine triphosphate (GTP) binding protein. Mutations in this gene result in disorders such as intellectual disability (ID) and epilepsy. In this study, we analyze the clinical features of two patients with IQSEC2-mutation-related disease and discuss their possible pathogenesis. METHODS: The two patients were diagnosed with ID and epilepsy. Genetic testing was performed using whole-exome sequencing, and the three-dimensional protein structure was analyzed. UCSC Genome Browser was used to analyze the conservation of IQSEC2 in different species. We compared IQSEC2 expression in the proband families with that in a control group, as well as the expression of the postsynaptic identity protein 95 (PSD-95), synapse-associated protein 97 (SAP97), ADP ribosylation factor 6 (ARF-6), and insulin receptor substrate 53kDa (IRSP53) genes interacting with IQSEC2. RESULTS: We identified two semi-zygote mutations located in conserved positions in different species: an unreported de novo mutation, C.3576C>A (p. Tyr1192*), and a known mutation, c.2983C>T (p. Arg995Trp). IQSEC2 mutations resulted in significant changes in the predicted three-dimensional protein structure, while its expression in the two probands was significantly lower than that in the age-matched control group, and IQSEC2 expression in proband 1 was lower than that in his family members. The expression levels of PSD-95, ARF-6, and SAP97, IRSP 53, which interact with IQSEC2, were also significantly different from those in the family members and age-matched healthy children. CONCLUSION: The clinical phenotype resulting from IQSEC2 mutations can be explained by the significant decrease in its expression, loss of function of the mutant protein, and change in the expression of related genes. Our results provide novel insights into the molecular phenotype conferred by the IQSEC2 variants.