Progress report on new medications for seizures and epilepsy: A summary of the 17th Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices (EILAT XVII). II. Drugs in more advanced clinical development.
The 17th Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices took place in Madrid, Spain on May 5-8, 2024. As usual, the core part of the conference consisted of presentations on investigational drugs at various stages of development for epilepsy-related indications. Summaries of information on compounds in preclinical or early clinical development are included in an accompanying publication (Part I). In this article, we provide summaries for five compounds in more advanced clinical development, i.e. compounds for which some information on antiseizure activity in individuals with epilepsy is available. These investigational treatments include azetukalner (XEN1101), a potent, KV7.2/7.3-specific potassium channel opener in development for the treatment of focal seizures, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and major depressive disorder; bexicaserin (LP352), a selective 5-HT2C receptor superagonist in development for the treatment of seizures associated with developmental and epileptic encephalopathies; radiprodil, a selective negative allosteric modulator of NR2B subunit-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors, in development for the treatment of seizures and behavior manifestations associated with disorders caused by gain-of-function mutations in the GRIN1, -2A, -2B, or -2D genes; soticlestat (TAK-935), a selective inhibitor of cholesterol 24-hydroxylase in development for the treatment of seizures associated with Dravet syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome; and STK-001, an antisense oligonucleotide designed to upregulate Nav1.1 protein expression and improve outcomes in individuals with Dravet syndrome. The diversity in mechanisms of action of these agents illustrates different approaches being pursued in the discovery of novel treatments for seizures and epilepsy. For two of the compounds discussed in this report (azetukalner and soticlestat), clinical evidence of efficacy has already been obtained in a randomized placebo-controlled adjunctive-therapy trial. For the other compounds, adequately powered placebo-controlled efficacy trials have not been completed to date.