Network pharmacology screening, in vitro and in vivo evaluation of antianxiety and antidepressant drug-food analogue.
BACKGROUND: Depression and anxiety disorders are prevalent psychiatric conditions, and currently utilized chemical drugs typically come with significant adverse effects. China boasts a wealth of medicinal and food herbs known for their safe and effective properties. PURPOSE: This study aimed to develop novel formulations with improved antidepressant and anxiolytic effects derived from medicinal and food herbs. STUDY DESIGN: Screening combinations with antidepressant and anxiolytic effects using techniques such as network pharmacology and validating their effects in vitro and in vivo experiments. METHODS: Utilizing network pharmacology and molecular docking, we identified the top ten medicinal herbs with anxiolytic and antidepressant potential. Herbs with cytoprotective effects and non-toxic characteristics were further screened to formulate the herbal blends. Subsequently, we established a PC12 cell injury model and a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) model in mice to assess the effects of our formulations. RESULTS: Ten medicinal herbs were initially screened, and six of them were deemed suitable for formulating the blend, namely Gancao, Dazao, Gouqizi, Sangye, Huangqi, and Jinyinhua (GDGSHJ). The GDGSHJ formulation reduced Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage, decreased apoptosis, and demonstrated a favorable antidepressant and antianxiety effect in the CUMS mouse model. Besides, GDGSHJ led to the upregulation of serum 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) content and brain tissue 5-HT, Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and Dopamine (DA) levels. It also downregulated the expression of SLC6A4 and SLC6A3 genes in the mouse hippocampus while upregulating HTR1A, DRD1, DRD2, and GABRA1 genes. CONCLUSION: Our formulation exhibited robust antidepressant and antianxiety effects without inducing substantial toxicity. This efficacy appears to be mediated by the expression of relevant genes within the hippocampus of mice. The formulation achieved this effect by balancing 5-HT levels in the serum and DA, GABA, and 5-HT levels within brain tissue.