CACNA1A haploinsufficiency leads to reduced synaptic function and increased intrinsic excitability.
Haploinsufficiency of CACNA1A, encoding the pore-forming &#x3b1;1 subunit of P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels, is associated with a clinically variable phenotype ranging from cerebellar ataxia to neurodevelopmental syndromes with epilepsy and intellectual disability. To understand the pathological mechanisms of CACNA1A loss-of-function variants, we characterized a human neuronal model for CACNA1A haploinsufficiency by differentiating isogenic induced pluripotent stem cell lines into glutamatergic neurons and investigated the effect of CACNA1A haploinsufficiency on mature neuronal networks through a combination of electrophysiology, gene expression analysis and in silico modelling. We observed an altered network synchronization in CACNA1A+/- networks alongside synaptic deficits, notably marked by an augmented contribution of GluA2 subunit-lacking &#x3b1;-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. Intriguingly, these synaptic perturbations coexisted with increased non-synaptically driven activity, as characterized by inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptors on micro-electrode arrays. Single-cell electrophysiology and gene expression analysis corroborated this increased intrinsic excitability through reduced potassium channel function and expression. Moreover, we observed partial mitigation of the CACNA1A+/- network phenotype by 4-aminopyridine, a therapeutic intervention for episodic ataxia type 2. Positive modulation of small conductance calcium-activated potassium channels could reverse the CACNA1A+/- network electrophysiological phenotype. In summary, our study pioneers the characterization of a human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neuronal model for CACNA1A haploinsufficiency and has unveiled new mechanistic insights. Beyond showcasing synaptic deficits, this neuronal model exhibited increased intrinsic excitability mediated by diminished potassium channel function, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic discovery platform with predictive validity.