Cortical versus hippocampal network dysfunction in a human brain assembloid model of epilepsy and intellectual disability.
Neurodevelopmental disorders often impair multiple cognitive domains. For instance, a genetic epilepsy syndrome might cause seizures due to cortical hyperexcitability and present with memory impairments arising from hippocampal dysfunction. This study examines how a single disorder differentially affects distinct brain regions using induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived cortical- and hippocampal-ganglionic eminence assembloids to model developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 13, a condition arising from gain-of-function mutations in the SCN8A gene encoding the sodium channel Nav1.6. While cortical assembloids showed network hyperexcitability akin to epileptogenic tissue, hippocampal assembloids did not, and instead displayed network dysregulation patterns similar to in vivo hippocampal recordings from epilepsy patients. Predictive computational modeling, immunohistochemistry, and single-nucleus RNA sequencing revealed changes in excitatory and inhibitory neuron organization that were specific to hippocampal assembloids. These findings highlight the unique impacts of a single pathogenic variant across brain regions and establish hippocampal assembloids as a platform for studying neurodevelopmental disorders. The genes SCN1A, SCN2A, and SCN8A encode the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) &#x3b1;-subunits Nav1.1, Nav1.2, and Nav1.6, respectively. Dravet syndrome is eat the severe end of the disease spectrum caused by SCN1A variants, and Nav1.1 haploinsufficiency in parvalbumin-positive inhibitory neurons has been proposed as a primary cause for the disease. Nav1.2 is predominantly expressed in excitatory neurons in neocortex and hippocampus. SCN2A is the gene with the largest number of de novo variants in patients with autism spectrum disorder and/or intellectual disability, and those are mainly truncations. SCN2A variants also appear in patients with epileptic encephalopathies, but those are mostly missense. Variants of SCN8A have been reported in a number of patients with variable epilepsies. Gain-of-function missense variants are the most common in SCN8A developmental and epileptic encephalopathy associated with motor manifestations such as ataxia and choreoathetosis in the most severe cases. SCN1B encodes the non-pore-forming VGSC&#x3b2;1 and &#x3b2;1B subunits, which are multifunctional channel regulatory molecules expressed in excitatory and inhibitory neurons. SCN1B variants are reported in patients with epilepsies of multiple etiologies. In vitro and animal model studies have provided critical insights into pathological mechanisms of the diseases caused by genetic variation in these genes.