Impaired excitability of fast-spiking neurons in a novel mouse model of KCNC1 epileptic encephalopathy.
The recurrent pathogenic variant KCNC1-p.Ala421Val (A421V) is a cause of developmental and epileptic encephalopathy characterized by moderate-to-severe developmental delay/intellectual disability, and infantile-onset treatment-resistant epilepsy with multiple seizure types, including myoclonic seizures. Yet, the mechanistic basis of this disease, and of the KCNC1 disease spectrum, remains unclear. KCNC1 encodes Kv3.1, a voltage-gated potassium channel subunit that is strongly and selectively expressed in neurons capable of generating action potentials at high frequency, including parvalbumin-positive fast-spiking GABAergic inhibitory interneurons in cerebral cortex (PV-INs) that are known to be important for cognitive function and plasticity as well as control of network excitation to prevent seizures. In this study, we generate a novel transgenic mouse model with conditional expression of the A421V pathogenic missense variant (Kcnc1-A421V/+ mice) to explore the specific physiological mechanisms of KCNC1 developmental and epileptic encephalopathy. Our results indicate that global heterozygous expression of the A421V variant leads to cognitive impairment, epilepsy, and premature lethality. We observe decreased PV-IN cell surface expression of Kv3.1 via immunohistochemistry, decreased voltage-gated potassium current density in PV-INs using outside-out nucleated macropatch recordings in brain slice, and profound impairments in the intrinsic excitability of cerebral cortex PV-INs (but not excitatory neurons) via current-clamp electrophysiology. In vivo two-photon calcium imaging revealed altered activity in Kcnc1-A421V/+ PV-INs and excitatory cells, as well as hypersynchronous discharges correlated with brief paroxysmal movements that were subsequently shown to be myoclonic seizures on electroencephalography. We found alterations in PV-IN-mediated inhibitory neurotransmission in young adult but not juvenile Kcnc1-A421V/+ mice relative to wild-type controls. Together, these results establish the specific impact of the recurrent Kv3.1-A421V variant on neuronal excitability and synaptic physiology across development to drive network dysfunction underlying KCNC1 epileptic encephalopathy.