Novel PCDH12 pathogenic missense variants cause neurodevelopmental disorders with ocular malformation.
Protocadherin-12 (PCDH12), a cell-adhesion protein belonging to the non-clustered protocadherin family, plays a crucial role in the establishment and regulation of neuronal connections and communication. Bi-allelic loss-of-function (LoF) variants in the PCDH12 gene have been associated with several neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) such as diencephalic-mesencephalic junction dysplasia syndrome, cerebral palsy, and cerebellar ataxia, often accompanied by ocular abnormalities. However, genotypes exhibit variable expressivity. Affected individuals sharing the same PCDH12 variant presenting differing phenotypic severities have posed major challenges towards identification of the underlying pathogenic mechanisms. Here, we report three affected individuals from two families, each harbouring non-truncating pathogenic missense variants in PCDH12 . The patients are compound heterozygous, with each individual carrying one extracellular [c.1742T>G (p.Val581Gly) and c.1861_2del/insCA (p.Ile621His)] and one intracellular variant [c.3370C>T (p.Arg1124Cys) and c.3445G>A (p.Asp1149Asn] on each allele. The children present with a range of phenotypes similar to those associated with LoF variants. One child exhibited microcephaly and seizures, while the two siblings displayed developmental delays and severe behavioral disorders. All three children experienced some degree of visual impairment. The missense variants provided new insights into the neurodevelopmental consequences of compromised PCDH12 function by distinguishing the specific consequences associated with dysfunction in the extracellular versus intracellular domains of PCDH12. All identified missense variants are predicted to be deleterious and destabilizing. The expression of PCDH12 in HEK293T and HeLa cells demonstrated that PCDH12 is expressed effectively, regardless of the presence of missense variants. However, the extracellular variants p.Val581Gly and p.Ile621His compromised the stability of PCDH12's homophilic adhesion. Additionally, we found evidence of an interaction between PCDH12 and the extracellular domain of the epilepsy-associated PCDH19 protein. PCDH12 extracellular missense variants also affect PCDH19 stability. Our study provides evidence that PCDH12 mediates both homophilic and heterophilic interactions. Our findings also highlight the importance of stable PCDH12-mediated adhesion, emphasizing the need to further study the functional consequences of PCDH12 missense variants on brain and visual system development.