STX1B variant-specific synaptic dysfunction is associated with network hyperexcitability in human iPSC-derived neurons.
BACKGROUND: Variants in STX1B/syntaxin-1B are linked to a spectrum of fever-associated epilepsy syndromes. While studies in murine models have provided mechanistic insights, their relevance to human disease in a heterozygous context may be limited. METHODS: We investigated two pathogenic STX1B variants using isolated single neurons and neuronal network cultures derived from patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells. These carried either a de novo p.G226R variant, associated with severe developmental epilepsy, or an InDel variant (p.K45delinsRCMIE/p.L46M) linked to a transient familial seizure syndrome. Synaptic function and network excitability were assessed using patch-clamp and multi-electrode array recordings, alongside morphological and transcriptomic profiling. FINDINGS: G226R exhibited both gain- and loss-of-function characteristics, with increased miniature excitatory postsynaptic current frequency in networks but not in autapses, and synaptic failure during sustained high-frequency stimulation. For the InDel variant, the predicted loss-of-function phenotype based on reduced syntaxin-1B levels was not detectable at the single-cell level, likely masked by compensatory synaptic upregulation. At the network level, however, both variants were associated with neuronal hyperexcitability, characterised by more frequent and prolonged bursting activity, with a much stronger phenotype in G226R-containing networks. Transcriptomic profiling revealed a differential dysregulation of synaptic and other neuronal genes. INTERPRETATION: The divergence between morphological, electrophysiological and transcriptomic findings suggests that compensatory mechanisms may contribute to network hyperexcitability. Initially engaged to maintain homoeostasis, they may ultimately contribute to a pathological network state. The graded severity of network alterations across STX1B variants correlates with the clinical phenotypes. FUNDING: BMBF (Treat ION-01GM2210A, SNAREopathies-01EW1809A), 2023 FEBS Summer Fellowship, Fort&#xfc;ne programme (2610-0-0), EKFS college precise.net, Open Access Publishing Fund of University of T&#xfc;bingen.