Title: An Efficacy and Safety Study of Vedolizumab Intravenous (IV) Compared to Adalimumab Subcutaneous (SC) in Participants With Ulcerative Colitis
Official title: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Double-Dummy, Multicenter, Active-Controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Vedolizumab IV Compared to Adalimumab SC in Subjects With Ulcerative Colitis
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE3.
Conditions: Colitis, Ulcerative
Interventions: Vedolizumab (DRUG); Adalimumab placebo (DRUG); Adalimumab (DRUG); Vedolizumab placebo (DRUG)
Summary: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of vedolizumab intravenous (IV) treatment compared to adalimumab subcutaneous (SC) treatment over a 52-week treatment period.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Has a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis established at least 3 months prior to screening by clinical and endoscopic evidence and corroborated by a histopathology report.
2. Has moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis as determined by a Mayo score of 6 to 12 with an endoscopic subscore greater than or equal to \>=2 within 14 days prior to the randomization.
3. Has evidence of ulcerative colitis proximal to the rectum (\>=15 centimeter \[cm\] of involved colon).
4. With extensive colitis (up to the hepatic flexure) or pancolitis of \>8 years duration or left-sided colitis of \>12 years duration must have documented evidence that a surveillance colonoscopy was performed within 12 months of the initial screening visit (may be performed during the Screening Period).
5. The participant:

   1. Has had previous treatment with tumor necrosis factor- alpha (TNF-alpha) antagonists without documented clinical response to treatment (example, due to lack of response \[primary nonresponders\], loss of response, or intolerance \[secondary nonresponders\]), or
   2. Has previously used a TNF-alpha antagonists (except adalimumab), and discontinued its use due to reasons other than safety, or
   3. Is naïve to TNF-alpha antagonist therapy but is failing current treatment (example, corticosteroids, 5-aminosalicylate \[5-ASA\], or immunomodulators).

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Clinical evidence of abdominal abscess or toxic megacolon at Screening.
2. Has had an extensive colonic resection, subtotal or total colectomy.
3. Has had ileostomy, colostomy, or known fixed symptomatic stenosis of the intestine.
4. Has a diagnosis of Crohn's colitis or indeterminate colitis, ischemic colitis, radiation colitis, diverticular disease associated with colitis, or microscopic colitis.
5. Has received any of the following for the treatment of underlying disease within 30 days of randomization:

   1. Non-biologic therapies (example, cyclosporine, tacrolimus, thalidomide) other than those specifically listed in Section Permitted Medications For Treatment of UC.
   2. An approved non-biologic therapy in an investigational protocol.
6. Has received any investigational or 