Title: Trial of Naproxen to Evaluate Various Methods of Measuring Analgesic Effect in Osteoarthritis Pain of the Knee
Official title: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-controlled Cross-over, Exploratory Trial of Naproxen to Evaluate Methods of Measuring Analgesic Effect in Osteoarthritis Pain of the Knee
Status: UNKNOWN. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: NA.
Conditions: Osteoarthritis, Knee
Interventions: Naproxen (DRUG); Placebo (DRUG)
Summary: This study aims to evaluate various methods of measuring pain relief in subjects who have chronic OA of the knee. After a 1 week of wash-out from existing therapy, subjects will be treated in a blinded fashion for 1 week with either naproxen (3 days at 250 mg twice a day followed by 4 days at 500 mg twice a day) or placebo. After the first week of treatment, subjects will have another week of wash-out followed by a second period of 1 week of the alternate treatment. Subjects will not be allowed to use oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or other oral analgesics, or topical medications on their target knees during the study. Acetaminophen will be allowed as a rescue medication.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Subject able to read, comprehend and sign written Informed Consent Form
2. Subject is 21 years old or older
3. If female, should be post-menopausal or has negative urine test
4. Subject has some degree of target joint pain for the last 3 months
5. Subject has to have 3 out of six:

   ( )Age \> 50 ( )Morning stiffness \< 30 minutes ( )Crepitus on active motion ( )Bony enlargement ( )No palpable warmth of synovium
6. Subject had an X-ray of the target knee showing evidence of OA within the past 3 years
7. Target joint does not contain any type of orthopedic and/or prosthetic device
8. Subject is ambulatory
9. Subject is in good general medical and psychological health, and is capable of completing study assessments and procedures.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Subject had an x-ray of the target knee showing Kellgren-Lawrence grade 4
2. Subject has any pain syndrome that has the potential to confound the assessment of the target knee.
3. the subject has a documented history of an adverse reaction to NSAIDs or acetaminophen
4. Subject is pregnant or breast feeding
5. Subject has sitting systolic pressure \> 180 mmHg or \< 90mmHg, and/or a sitting diastolic pressure \> 100 mmHg or \< 50 mmHg at screening
6. Subject has mass body index (BMI) \> 35 kg/m2.
7. Subject has a Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) score \> 12 on either subscale or has an established history of major depressive disorder not controlled with medication
8. Subject has had an introduction of physiotherapy, acupuncture, or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation within 4 weeks before screening, or has no stable regimen of these modalities.
9. Subject has a clinically significant abnormalities in clinical chemistry, hematology, coagulation, or urinalysis.
10. Subject has a significant history or renal impairment
11. Subject has a positive urine drug screen for alcohol, illicit drugs or nonprescribed controlled substances
12. Subject has dermatological lesions of the target knee or ipsilateral elbow at the time of screening.
13. Subject is unable to discontinue all formulations of prior analgesics
14. Subject has received any investigational drug within 30 days prior 