Title: Leucettinib-21 First-in-Human Phase 1 in Healthy Volunteers and Subjects With Down Syndrome and Alzheimer's Disease
Official title: Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Phase 1 Study to Evaluate Safety, Tolerability, PK/PD of SAD, MAD and Food Effect of Leucettinib-21 in Healthy Male Subjects, and Single Dose in Subjects With Down Syndrome or Alzheimer's Disease
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1.
Conditions: Healthy Volunteers; Down Syndrome; Alzheimer's Disease
Interventions: Leucettinib-21 (DRUG)
Summary: Leucettinib-21 First-in-Human Phase 1 Study in 6 Parts: Single (Part 1 and 5) and Multiple (Part 3 and 6) Ascending Doses, and Food-Effect (Part 2) in Healthy Subjects, and Single Dose (Part 4) in People with Down Syndrome (DS) and Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

For Parts 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6, safety and tolerability of an oral administration of Leucettinib-21 will be assessed as primary objectives. Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamic biomarkers will be investigated as secondary objectives.

For Part 2, the effect of high fat meal will be evaluated on the pharmacokinetics parameters after an oral administration of Leucettinib-21.
Eligibility: Inclusion criteria for Parts 1, 2, 3, 5 \& 6:

* Part 5: Healthy male and female aged to 18-55 years inclusive / Part 6: Healthy male aged to 18-55 years inclusive
* Part 1, 2, 3, 5 \& 6 for males: Must agree to adhere to the contraception requirements: use of condom by the male subject plus an effective method of contraception for the subject partner of childbearing potential from the time of informed consent signature up to 4 months after last IMP administration. Highly effective method of birth control such as combined hormonal contraception associated with inhibition of ovulation (oral, intravaginal, transdermal), progestogen-only hormonal contraception associated with inhibition of ovulation (oral, injectable, implantable), intra uterine devices (IUDs), intrauterine hormone-releasing system (IUS), bilateral tubal occlusion, true abstinence is acceptable when it is in line with the subject's preferred and usual lifestyle) / Part 5 for females of childbearing potential: Must agree to adhere to the contraception requirements: use for the subject of a highly effective method of birth control (defined as methods that can achieve a failure rate less than 1per 100 per year when used consistently and correctly) restricted to non-hormonal intra uterine device or non-hormonal intra uterine system, vasectomized partner and use of a second form of contraception. Hormonal methods of contraception whichever the mode of administration are not permitted. The following acceptable methods can be used as a second form of contraception during the study: partner's use of a condom or the subject's use of an occlusive cap \[diaphragm or cervical/vault caps\] with spermicidal foam, gel, film, cream, or suppository from the time of informed consent signature and for 4 months after the last study drug administration. True sexual abstinence when this is in line with the preferred and usual lifestyle of the subject is acceptable. Periodic abstinence (e.g., calendar ovulation, symptothermal, post-ovulation methods), declaration of abstinence for the duration of the trial and withdrawal are NOT acceptable methods of contraception / Part 5 for females of non-childbearing potential: femal