Title: Comparative Efficacy Evaluation of Lipids When Treated With Niaspan & Statin or Other Lipid-Modifying Therapies-COMPELL
Official title: Comparative Efficacy Evaluation of Lipid Levels When Treated With Niaspan and Statin or Other Lipid-Modifying Therapies
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE4.
Conditions: Dyslipidemia; Coronary Heart Disease; Atherosclerosis; Stroke; Diabetes
Interventions: Niacin (DRUG); Atorvastatin (DRUG); Simvastatin (DRUG); Ezetimibe (DRUG); Rosuvastatin (DRUG)
Summary: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of first-line treatment using Niaspan (an extended release version of niacin) and statins versus other drugs that lower lipid levels, in subjects with elevated fat levels in their blood (dyslipidemia). Statins are a class of medication that is often prescribed to patients who need to lower their cholesterol levels.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

All of the following criteria must be answered "Yes":

1. Patient is 21 years of age or older and willing to participate for the duration of the study;
2. Patient has read, signed, and agreed to the items listed in the informed consent form and HIPAA authorization form prior to the initiation of any study procedures and/or discontinuing any medications;
3. Patient is eligible for treatment following the drug washout period based upon the NCEP ATP III entry criteria and the LDL-C variability ≤ 15%;
4. Patient has mean triglyceride level (TG) ≤ 300 mg/dL;
5. Patient is willing to withdraw from any current anti-dyslipidemic medications or other prohibited medication for approximately 6 weeks prior to randomization (4 weeks prior to qualification visits) and for the duration of the study;
6. If the patient is female, the patient must not be pregnant or breast-feeding and not planning to become pregnant or to breast-feed for the duration of the study. Women of childbearing potential must commit to using a medically acceptable method of birth control such as oral contraception, intrauterine device (IUD), or a double-barrier method of contraception. Women using oral contraception must have done so for at least 3 months prior to randomization, and continue to do so for the duration of the study. To be considered not of childbearing potential, women must be post-menopausal for at least 2 years or surgically sterile.

Exclusion Criteria:

All the following criteria must be answered "No":

1. Patient has an allergy, hypersensitivity, or intolerance to niacin, simvastatin, atorvastatin, ezetimibe, rosuvastatin or their derivatives;
2. Patient drinks more than 14 alcoholic drinks per week or has a previous history (within 12 months of screening) of substance abuse or dependency;
3. Patient has untreated or unsuccessfully treated psychiatric disease;
4. Patient has used an investigational study medication or participated in an investigational study within 30 days of obtaining qualification labs;
5. Patient has taken a prohibited medication within 4 weeks of obtaining qualification labs for the study (See section 8.0 - Concomitant Medications);
6. Patient 