Title: Harmonizing Optimal Strategy for Treatment of Coronary Artery Stenosis - Coronary Intervention With Next Generation Drug-Eluting Stent Platforms and Abbreviated Dual Antiplatelet Therapy (HOST-IDEA) Trial
Official title: Harmonizing Optimal Strategy for Treatment of Coronary Artery Stenosis - Coronary Intervention With Next Generation Drug-Eluting Stent Platforms and Abbreviated Dual Antiplatelet Therapy (HOST-IDEA) Trial
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE4.
Conditions: Stable Angina; Unstable Angina; Non-ST Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction
Interventions: 3-months DAPT (DRUG); 1-year DAPT (DRUG)
Summary: We had little experience in coronary intervention with recently introduced newer drug-eluting stent (DES) platforms, despite great anticipation, and optimal duration of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) for these stent systems still needs to be established.

Herein, we plan the HOST-coronary intervention with next-generation drug-eluting stent platforms and abbreviated dual antiplatelet therapy (HOST-IDEA) trial to compare single antiplatelet therapy (SAPT) after 3-month DAPT with 12-month DAPT in all-comers undergoing coronary intervention with third-generation DES with the thinnest struts.

P2Y12 inhibitor treatment is added to aspirin during the 3-months period after the stenting, and this abbreviated duration of DAPT will be compared with conventional 1-year mandatory DAPT regimen in a 1:1 randomized stratification.

Net adverse clinical events (NACEs), a composite of cardiac death, target vessel related myocardial infarction, clinically-drivent target lesion revascularization, definite or probable stent thrombosis and major bleeding is a primary endpoint for evaluating safety and efficacy of the difference of DAPT duration.

1-year target lesion failure (TLF) as a composite of 
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

* Patients with de novo stenotic lesions who are suitable for coronary stenting with drug-eluting stent

Exclusion Criteria:

* 1\. High risk profiles for ischemic adverse events such as A. ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) B. Patients with cardiogenic shock or concomitant severe decompensated heart failure C. Myocardial infarction or stent thrombosis in spite of the maintenance of antiplatelet therapy D. Restenosis in stented segments or previous sites of balloon angioplasty 2. Patients who cannot follow allocated DAPT schedule due to the planned surgery or elective procedure within 3 months after the stenting 3. Recent history of major surgery or evident events of gastrointestinal bleeding within 1 month from the procedure 4. Patients on anticoagulation therapy with warfarin or other anticoagulants 5. Life expectancy less than 1 year (such as malignancies or other chronic systemic diseases) 6. Pregnant women 7. Past history of allergy or other contraindications for the following medications/materials: aspirin, clopidogrel, heparin, cobalt chromium, sirolimus