Title: ATTUNE: A Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of Intrathecally-Administered ION440 in Participants With Methyl CpG Binding Protein 2 (MECP2) Duplication Syndrome (MDS)
Official title: A Phase 1-2, Double-Blind, Sham-Controlled Multiple Ascending Dose Study to Evaluate Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of Intrathecally-Administered ION440 in Patients With MECP2 Duplication Syndrome
Status: RECRUITING. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1, PHASE2.
Conditions: Methyl CpG Binding Protein 2 (MECP2) Duplication Syndrome
Interventions: ION440 (DRUG); Sham procedure (PROCEDURE)
Summary: The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ION440.
Eligibility: Key Inclusion criteria for Part 1:

1. Males aged ≥ 2 to ≤ 65 years, depending on specific cohort and group, at the time of informed consent.

   1. Group A: ≥ 8 to ≤ 65 years old
   2. Group B: 2 to 7 years old, inclusive
2. Participant has at least one parent or caregiver ≥ 18 years old capable of providing informed consent and able to comply with all study requirements and activities.
3. Participant has a documented diagnosis of MDS with genetic confirmation of MECP2 duplication.
4. Is currently receiving stable doses of concomitant medications for at least 1 month prior to screening.
5. Able to complete all study procedures, measurements and visits to support primary and secondary endpoints, in the opinion of the Investigator.

Key Exclusion criteria for Part 1:

1. Documented diagnosis of severe MECP2 duplications including terminal duplication and/or translocation or MECP2 triplication OR clinical features associated with severe variant structure including (a) onset of seizures prior to age 5 (for those aged 5 and above at signing of ICF), (b) oxygen dependence, (c) microcephaly, IF MECP2 genetic structure information is unavailable.
2. Clinically significant vital sign or ECG abnormality at Screening
3. Known brain or spinal disease that would interfere with the LP procedure, or CSF circulation or presence of other factors would affect the safety of the LP procedure.
4. Has any concomitant disease or condition or circumstance, or any finding at Screening that, in the opinion of the Investigator, makes the participant unsuitable for enrollment or that could interfere with the conduct of the study or that would pose an unacceptable risk to the participant in this study.
5. Treatment with an investigational drug, biological agent, or device within 30 days of Screening, or 5 half-lives of investigational agent, whichever is longer.
6. Previous treatment with an oligonucleotide (including siRNA) within 4 months of Screening if single dose received, or within 12 months of Screening if multiple doses received (this exclusion does not apply to vaccines - both mRNA and viral vector vaccines are allowed including COVID-19). For centrally administered ASOs, a minimu