Title: CBD Delivery with the A-Synaptic GT4 Transdermal Delivery System in with Dravet Syndrome And/or Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome
Official title: Preliminary Evaluation of the Safety and Efficacy of CBD Delivery with the A-Synaptic GT4 Transdermal Delivery System in Individuals Diagnosed with Dravet Syndrome And/or Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1, PHASE2.
Conditions: Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome (LGS); Dravet Syndrome (DS)
Interventions: CBD: GT4 Transdermal Delivery System (DRUG)
Summary: This study is a preliminary open-label, single-arm Phase II investigation into the safety and efficacy of transdermal cannabidiol (CBD) delivered using GT4 skin bream technology in individuals diagnosed with Dravet and/or Lennox-Gastatu syndrome (DS and/or LGS). We aim to enroll 25 participants between the ages of 2 and 55 diagnosed with DS and/or LGS.

Transdermal delivery of cannabinoids may provide advantages over other traditional routes of administration. Noted advantages include avoidance of first pass metabolism which mitigates potentially dangerous drug-drug interactions due to delayed cannabinoid accumulation, and more stable and constant plasma cannabinoid concentrations. GT4 technology, uses emulsion technology containing penetrating agents, basement membrane disruptors, and vasodilators to overcome hydrophilic and lipophilic structures to open channels and transport cannabinoids deep into the dermis layer of the skin. Once in the dermis, vasodilators dilate the capillary bed to increase fluid dynamic flow into and out of the application site, delivering cannabinoids into the blood stream.

The primary objective is to investigate the safety and efficacy of CBD delivery w
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Males and females between the age of 2-55 years, inclusive
2. Females not of child-bearing potential, defined as those who have undergone a sterilization procedure (e.g. hysterectomy, bilateral oophorectomy, bilateral tubal ligation, complete endometrial ablation), have been post-menopausal for at least 1 year prior to screening, or have not reached menarche Or,

   Individuals of child-bearing potential must have a negative baseline urine pregnancy test and agree to use a medically approved method of birth control for the duration of the study. All hormonal birth control must have been in use for a minimum of three months. Acceptable methods of birth control include:
   * Hormonal contraceptives including oral contraceptives, hormone birth control patch (Ortho Evra), vaginal contraceptive ring (NuvaRing), injectable contraceptives (Depo-Provera, Lunelle), or hormone implant (Norplant System)
   * Double-barrier method
   * Intrauterine devices
   * Non-heterosexual lifestyle or agrees to use contraception if planning on changing to heterosexual partner(s)
   * Vasectomy of partner at least 6 months prior to screening
   * Abstinence and agrees to use contraception if planning on becoming sexually active
3. Clinically confirmed and documented diagnosis of refractory DS and/or LGS. Documentation of diagnosis must be provided by a neurologist, pediatrician, or primary care practitioner
4. Reported ≥4 countable seizures during the 28-day run in period
5. Participants taking ≥1 AED at a stable dose for ≥4 weeks prior to screening, and participants and/or caregivers willing to maintain dose for duration of study period
6. Non-pharmacological therapies (e.g., vagus nerve stimulation, ketogenic diet, modified Atkins diet) stable for ≥4 weeks prior to screening, and participants and/or caregivers willing to maintain a stable regimen for the duration of the study period
7. Adults to provide voluntary, written, informed consent to participate in the study. If under the age of consent or unable to consent due to cognitive impairment, the participant and the participant's parent(s), legal guardian(s), or caregiver(s) to provide voluntary, written, in