Title: Sleep Abnormalities in Rare Genetic Disorders: AS, RTT, and PW
Official title: Sleep Abnormalities in Rare Genetic Disorders: Angelman Syndrome, Rett Syndrome, and Prader Willi
Status: COMPLETED. Type: OBSERVATIONAL. Phases: none.
Conditions: Rett Syndrome; Prader-Willi Syndrome; Angelman Syndrome; Sleep Problems
Interventions: none
Summary: This study will investigate sleep behavior in subjects with Angelman Syndrome, Rett Syndrome or Prader-Willi Syndrome.

The study will also investigate sleep behavior in healthy siblings of subjects with Angelman Syndrome, Rett Syndrome or Prader-Willi Syndrome. These individuals will serve as control subjects.

The study will use questionnaires designed to identify sleep disorders and how they affect behavior and quality of life.

The principal goals of this study are:

1. To see how common sleep disorders are in individuals with Angelman Syndrome, Rett Syndrome or Prader-Willi Syndrome;
2. To see how sleep disorders affect behavior in these individuals;
3. To see whether sleep disorders and related behavior problems improve or worsen with age;
4. To see how specific disease conditions relate to sleep disorders and how bad the sleep disorders are;
5. To develop new treatment options to improve quality of life and behavior issues; and
6. To evaluate current treatment options to improve sleep problems in these individuals.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

Eligible Inclusion Criteria - Subjects

1. Enrollment in a RDCRN consortium registry for either AS, RTT or PWS.
2. Have a clinical diagnosis of AS, RTT or PWS, or be a normal sibling of an individual with AS, RTT or PWS who is enrolled in the study.
3. Be between 0 to18 years of age inclusive.
4. Be English-speaking (study questionnaires will only be available in English).

Inclusion Criteria - Controls

1. Must have a sibling with either AS, RTT or PWS enrolled in the study.
2. Must not have a diagnosis of any neurological disorder.
3. Be between 0 to18 years of age inclusive
4. Be English-speaking (study questionnaires will only be available in English).

Exclusion Criteria:

Exclusion Criteria - Subjects

1. No clinical diagnosis of AS, RTT, or PWS.
2. Diagnosis of a severe genetic disorder in addition to AS, RTT, or PWS.
3. Be over 18 years of age inclusive.

Exclusion Criteria - Controls

1. Diagnosis of a neurological disorder.
2. Diagnosis of a severe genetic disorder.
3. Be over 19 years of age inclusive.