Title: Rare Diseases Clinical Research Network: Neurophysiological Correlates
Official title: Rett Syndrome, MECP2 Duplication, and Rett-Related Disorders Consortium, Rare Disease Clinical Research Network: Neurophysiologic Correlates
Status: COMPLETED. Type: OBSERVATIONAL. Phases: none.
Conditions: Rett Syndrome, Preserved Speech Variant; Mecp2 Duplication Syndrome; Rett-related Disorders
Interventions: Auditory and Visual Event-related Potentials and EEG (PROCEDURE)
Summary: The overall purpose of this project is to advance understanding of the neurophysiological features of Rett syndrome (RTT), MECP2 Duplication (MECP2 Dup) and RTT-related disorders (CDKL5, FOXG1) to gain insight into disease pathogenesis, with an emphasis on identifying biomarkers of disease evolution and severity. This specific study is intertwined to the core study Natural History of Rett Syndrome and Related Disorders (RTT5211), which characterizes range of clinical involvement and genotype-phenotype correlations and will provide phenotypical data for determining the clinical relevance of the neurophysiologic parameters; study subjects here are co- and primarily enrolled in RTT5211. The proposed studies will serve as basis of future translational investigations, including further refinement of biomarkers, development of outcome measures, and clinical trials per se.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria: Individuals with RTT, MECP2 Dup, and RTT-related disorders (mutations or deletions in CDKL5 and FOXG1 genes) who are also enrolled in the RTT5211 Protocol, which collects longitudinal clinical and neurobehavioral data will be linked to the RTT5211 Protocol by their RDCRN identification numbers. No phenotypical selection of subjects will be performed; we expect the cohort will be representative of each disorder.

A cohort of 60 typically developing girls and boys (30 each) will be enrolled to serve as controls. Typical development in the control group will be confirmed by normal intelligence quotient scores or equivalent scores on developmental tests using standardized measures and negative psychiatric diagnoses on a standardized diagnostic interview administered to their mothers, fathers or guardians (Diagnostic Interview for Children and Adolescents, Revised: Parents' Version). All control subjects must have a negative history of neurologic impairment or neuropsychiatric conditions and show no clinical evidence of a genetic disorder.

Exclusion Criteria: Individuals who do not meet the above criteria will be excluded.