Title: Imaging of Coronary Plaques in Participants Treated With Evolocumab
Official title: High-Resolution Assessment of Coronary Plaques in a Global Evolocumab Randomized Study (HUYGENS)
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE3.
Conditions: Coronary Artery Disease (CAD)
Interventions: Evolocumab (DRUG); Placebo (DRUG); Statin therapy (DRUG)
Summary: To evaluate the effect of evolocumab on fibrous cap thickness (FCT) in participants with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS) who are taking maximally tolerated statin therapy.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

* Provided informed consent prior to initiation of any study-specific activities/procedures.
* Age greater than or equal to 18 years at screening
* Clinical indication for coronary angiography during admission due to NSTE-ACS with interventional treatment of culprit plaque
* An eligible low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level via local lab assessment based on statin use at screening

No statin use: greater than or equal to 130 mg/dL Low- or moderate-intensity statin use greater than or equal to 80 mg/dL High-intensity statin use greater than or equal to 60 mg/dL

* On maximally tolerated statin therapy in accordance with standard of care per local guidelines prior to randomization.
* Tolerates placebo run-in injection at screening
* Meets all the following criteria at the qualifying coronary angiogram:

Angiographic evidence of coronary artery disease (CAD) with greater than or equal to 20% reduction of lumen diameter by angiographic visual estimation, in addition to the culprit plaque.

Left main coronary artery must not have a greater than 50% reduction in lumen diameter by visual angiographic estimation.

Targeted vessel:

May not be the culprit vessel for the current or a previous myocardial infarction (MI).

Has not undergone prior percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), and may not be a bypass graft.

May not be a candidate for PCI or CABG currently or over the next 12 months, in the opinion of the investigator.

Must be accessible by the optical coherence tomography (OCT) catheter.

Targeted segment:

Must have up to 50% but not greater than 50% reduction in lumen diameter by visual angiographic estimation and must be at least 40 mm in length.

Must contain at least 1 image with a fibrous cap thickness (FCT) of less than or equal to 120 μm and at least 1 image with a lipid arc of greater than 90° as determined by the imaging core laboratory Distal plaques of up to 50% stenosis by visual angiographic estimation are permitted, provided that such stenosis is not a target for PCI or CABG.

Exclusion Criteria:

* ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or left bundle branch b