Title: Research on Cognitive Effect of Cannabidiol on Dravet Syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut SyndromeGastaut Syndrome
Official title: A Prospective Multi-Center Single-Arm Clinical Trial on Cognitive Effect of Cannabidiol (CBD-OS®) on Dravet Syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome
Status: UNKNOWN. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE3.
Conditions: Dravet Syndrome; Lennox Gastaut Syndrome
Interventions: Cannabidiol (DRUG)
Summary: The clinical trial "A Prospective Single-Center Single-Arm Clinical Trial on Cognitive Effect of Cannabidiol (CBD-OS®) on Dravet syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome" is a single-group phase III study done in single tertiary referral center in Seoul, Korea.

Chief investigator is Dr. Hoon-Chul Kang of Severance Hospital, Yonsei University College of Medicine. Associate investigators are Dr. Heung Dong Kim, Joon Soo Lee, Se Hee Kim, Han Som Choi, Ji Hoon Na, Dong Hwa Yang, and Hee Jung Kang, of Severance Hospital, Yonsei University College of Medicine.

The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of cannabidiol (CBD-OS®) on cognitive functions in patients aged from 2 to 18 years old diagnosed with Dravet syndrome or Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. The duration of study is planned as one year, after patient recruitment of 6 months. The intervention period in each patient is 24 weeks, with 2 weeks of medication titration, stabilization period of 10 weeks, and maintenance period of 12 weeks. The recruitment goal of patient number is 104, considering the study power of 90 percent.

Primary outcomes are improvement of cognitive and development and improvement of seizure outcome. Secondary ou
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Age: 2 years old to 18 years old
2. Investigation center: Severance hospital, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea
3. (1) Diagnosed as Dravet syndrome by clinical manifestations and/or genetic test (2) Diagnosed as Lennox-Gastaut syndrome by clinical manifestations and electroencephalography
4. The diagnosed patients by criteria 3-(1) or 3-(2) with intractable seizures after using over two antiepileptic medications
5. Patients and caregivers who agreed to participation in this trial

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Patients with possibility of progressive central nervous system disease other systemic disease
2. The patients who started additional antiepileptic medication during the investigation period, with exception of short-term acute treatment of seizures (e.g. benzodiazepine for rescue therapy)
3. Patients with alanine and aspartate aminotransferase and/or total bilirubin levels over 2 times of the normal range, or blood urea nitrogen and creatinine ratio over 3 times of the normal range
4. Patient with hypersensitivity or allergic reactions to cannabidiol
5. patients who are incapable of executing cognitive tests, or cases whom the investigators consider inappropriate to be enrolled in the trial