Title: A Clinical Study of SHR-9839 as Monotherapy or in Combination With Chemotherapy Plus Adebrelimab Versus Chemotherapy Plus Adebrelimab in Patients With Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Official title: A Randomized, Controlled, Open-label, Multicenter Phase II Clinical Study of SHR-9839 as Monotherapy or in Combination With Chemotherapy Plus Adebrelimab Versus Chemotherapy Plus Adebrelimab in Patients With Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Status: RECRUITING. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE2.
Conditions: Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Interventions: SHR-9839(sc) for Injection (DRUG); SHR-9839(sc) for Injection、Adebrelimab Injection、Paclitaxel for Injection、Cisplatin Injecion (DRUG)
Summary: An open-label, multicenter, randomized, phase II clinical trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of SHR-9839(sc) as monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapy plus adebelimab in patients with advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Capable of providing informed consent; has signed and dated the IRB/EC-approved informed consent form, and is willing and able to comply with scheduled study visits, examinations and all other protocol-specified procedures.
2. Aged between 18 and 75 years inclusive at the time of informed consent signature, irrespective of gender.
3. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1.
4. Histopathologically confirmed locally advanced unresectable or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).
5. Expected survival ≥12 weeks.
6. Must provide a minimum of 11 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor tissue blocks or unstained tumor slides.
7. Females of childbearing potential must agree to use adequate effective contraception from the date of informed consent, throughout study treatment, and for 9 months after the last dose of investigational product, and refrain from oocyte donation during this period (refer to subsequent section for detailed contraceptive requirements).

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Uncontrolled or symptomatic active central nervous system (CNS) metastases without adequate prior treatment.
2. History of another concurrent malignant tumor diagnosed within 3 years prior to the first study drug administration.
3. Presence of uncontrolled tumor-related pain as assessed by the Investigator.
4. Severe cardiovascular or cerebrovascular diseases.
5. History of interstitial lung disease (ILD) including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, organizing pneumonia (e.g., bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia), drug-induced pneumonitis, radiation pneumonitis requiring steroid therapy; or suspected/unruled-out ILD on screening imaging; or moderate-to-severe pulmonary disease severely impairing respiratory function.
6. Severe infection within 4 weeks before study treatment initiation, including but not limited to bacteremia, severe pneumonia or other infectious complications requiring hospitalization; active CTCAE Grade ≥2 infection requiring systemic antibiotics within 2 weeks prior to first dose (subjects on prophylactic antibiotics e.g., for urinary tract infection prophylaxis are eligible).
7. History of 