Title: A Study to Evaluate Administration of SBT101 Gene Therapy in Adult Patients With Adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN)
Official title: A Phase 1/2 Randomized, Blinded, Dose-escalation Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Intrathecal Administration of AAV9-ABCD1 Gene Therapy (SBT101) in Adult Patients With Adrenomyeloneuropathy
Status: TERMINATED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1, PHASE2.
Conditions: AMN; AMN Gene Mutation; X-ALD
Interventions: SBT101 Treatment (GENETIC)
Summary: This is a Phase 1/2 randomized, blinded, dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intrathecal (IT) administration of SBT101, a recombinant adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) containing a functional copy of the human adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette transporter subfamily D member 1 (ABCD1; hABCD1) gene, in adult patients with adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) aged 18-65 years.

Patients will receive a single dose of SBT101 via IT route (or an imitation procedure) and will be followed for safety and efficacy for 2 years. Patients receiving SBT101 will be followed for an additional 3 years (5 total) for Safety. Patients receiving an imitation procedure will be offered the opportunity to receive SBT101 after 2 years, as data indicate.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Diagnosed with X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD), including proven mutation in the ABCD1 gene through confirmatory genetic testing, and supported by elevated circulating VLCFA levels.
2. Clinical evidence of spinal cord involvement but still able to ambulate independently

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Evidence of or past diagnosis of inflammatory cerebral disease.
2. 15 years or more have elapsed since the initial onset of myeloneuropathy manifestations such as walking or running difficulties, bladder dysfunction, increased muscular tone, spasticity, weakness, balance problems, etc.
3. Contraindications for MRI procedure and/or contrast materials.
4. Contraindication to steroids, sirolimus, tacrolimus, and/or anesthetic medications.
5. Unstable adrenal function (e.g., untreated or inappropriately treated adrenal insufficiency).
6. History of diabetes or abnormal fasting plasma glucose (≥126 mg/dL) or hemoglobin A1C ≥6.5%.
7. Patients who have received a gene therapy.