Title: Q10 Ubiquinol in Autism Spectrum Disorder and in Phelan-McDermid Syndrome.
Official title: Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Cross-over, Double-blind Study of a Metabolic Support Therapy With Q10 Ubiquinol and a Multivitamin B and E Complex in Two Cohorts of Patients With Idiopathic and Syndromic Autism (Phelan-McDermid Syndrome)
Status: UNKNOWN. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: NA.
Conditions: Autism Spectrum Disorder; Phelan-McDermid Syndrome
Interventions: Q10 Ubiquinol (DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT); Vitamin E (DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT); Multi-Vitamin B complex (DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT)
Summary: This double-blind, cross-over, randomized, controlled trial (RCT) has the aim of evaluating the effectiveness of a metabolic support therapy in two cohorts of patients with idiopathic Autism Spectrum Disorder or Phelan-McDermid syndrome, commonly associated with syndromic autism. Each patient will receive Q10 ubiquinol + Vit. E and B for 4 months and only Vit. E and B for 4 months in a double-blind, cross-over design. Primary outcome measures of efficacy include Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales, Childhood Autism Rating Scale, Clinical Global Impression-Improvement and Visual Analog Scales; secondary outcome measures include several questionnaires and tests of autism, cognitive function, problem behaviors, quality of life, communication and comorbid disorders, as well as measures of oxidative stress.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Both parents or a legally authorized patient representative (LAR) must provide written informed consent. The parents and guardian must be able to understand and comply with the experimental protocol;
2. Subjects of both sexes, aged between 2 and 40 years old, may be included in the study;
3. The subject must meet DSM-5 criteria for a primary diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder (idiopathic autism) or carry a documented deletion of human chromosome 22q13.33 or mutation in the SHANK3 gene (Phelan-McDermid Syndrome);
4. Subjects with idiopathic autism must pass the threshold score for Autism of the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule;
5. Baseline Children's Global Assessment Scale score must be between 45 and 59;
6. Patients treated with psychoactive drugs (neuroleptics, antiepileptics, etc.) are enrolled only if the treatment and dosage of these drugs has been constant for at least 3 months prior to enrollment in the trial and is kept constant throughout the 8-month duration of the trial;
7. Patients undergoing any kind of behavioral intervention must have must have started the intervention at least 3 months prior to enrollment and the intervention must remain unchanged throughout the 8-month duration of the trial;
8. The patient is able to swallow the capsule or his/her parents are available to open it and administer immediately its content in a small quantity of juice or soft-drink.

Exclusion Criteria:

Patients who meet any of the following criteria will not be recruited in the study:

1. Patients with autism secondary to known genetic syndromes other than Phelan-McDermid syndrome (for example, Rett syndrome, fragile-X syndrome, etc.);
2. Presence of brain malformations or major structural anomalies visible by magnetic resonance imaging;
3. Patients with autism secondary to epileptic encephalopathy or with idiopathic autism comorbid with seizures more frequent than one episode every 6 months despite ongoing antiepileptic drug therapy;
4. Patients with autism accompanied by marked facial dysmorphism and/or congenital malformations;
5. Patients treated with anticoagulants;
6. Patients with serious medical illnesses (chronic renal dise