Title: A Study of TAK-981 Given With Pembrolizumab in Participants With Select Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
Official title: A Phase 1b/2 Study of TAK-981 Plus Pembrolizumab to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, and Antitumor Activity of the Combination in Patients With Select Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1, PHASE2.
Conditions: Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
Interventions: TAK-981 (DRUG); Pembrolizumab (DRUG)
Summary: TAK-981 is being tested in combination with pembrolizumab to treat participants who have select advanced or metastatic solid tumors.

The study aims are to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and preliminary efficacy of TAK-981 in combination with pembrolizumab.

Participants will be on this combination treatment for 21-day cycles. They will continue with this treatment for up to 24 months or until participants meet any discontinuation criteria.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Has a histologically or cytologically documented, advanced (metastatic and/or unresectable) cancer as listed below that is incurable: Note: Prior neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy included in initial treatment may not be considered first- or later-line standard of care treatment unless such treatments were completed less than 12 months prior to the current tumor recurrence.

   A. Non-squamous NSCLC for which prior standard first-line treatment containing an anti-programmed cell death protein 1/programmed cell death protein 1 ligand (PD-1/PD-L1) checkpoint inhibitor (CPI) alone or in combination has failed and that has progressed on no more than 1 prior systemic therapy. In Phase 2, participants with nonsquamous NSCLC must have not received more than 1 prior systemic therapy and must not have presented with disease progression during the first 6 months of treatment with first-line CPI/anti-PD-(1/L1)-containing therapy.

   Note: In Phase 1, participants with nonsquamous NSCLC and known driver mutations/genomic aberrations (e.g., epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), B-Raf proto-oncogene mutation V600E \[BRAF V600E\], and ROS proto-oncogene 1 \[ROS1\] sensitizing mutations, neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase \[NRTK\] gene fusions, and anaplastic lymphoma kinase \[ALK\] rearrangements) must have also shown progressive disease after treatment with a commercially available targeted therapy. In Phase 2, participants with driver mutations are not eligible.

   B. CPI-naive cervical cancer (squamous cell carcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma or adenocarcinoma of the cervix) participants for whom prior standard first-line treatment has failed and who have received no more than 1 prior systemic line of therapy for recurrent or Stage IVB cervical cancer. Note: The following cervical tumors are not eligible: minimal deviation/adenoma malignum, gastric-type adenocarcinoma, clear-cell carcinoma, and mesonephric carcinoma. Histologic confirmation of the original primary tumor is required via pathology report. Note: First-line treatment must have consisted of platinum-containing doublet. Chemotherapy administered concurrently with primary radiation (e.