Title: Clinical Study to Evaluate Cannabidiol Liver Enzyme Elevations and Drug Interactions
Official title: Clinical Study to Evaluate Cannabidiol Liver Enzyme Elevations and Drug Interactions
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1.
Conditions: Cannabidiol; Drug Induced Liver Injury; Drug Interaction
Interventions: Cannabidiol (DRUG); Placebo (DRUG); Citalopram (DRUG); Morphine (DRUG)
Summary: Cannabidiol (CBD) is available as a prescription drug product for the treatment of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, Dravet syndrome, or tuberous sclerosis complex. At labeled doses up to 25 mg/kg/day, an increased risk of liver enzyme elevation and drug-induced liver injury has been observed. However, only limited evaluations of the risk of liver enzyme elevation of daily, lower dose CBD use are available. The potential for liver enzyme elevations with lower CBD doses with unapproved consumer products highlights a need for further research. In addition, CBD has the capacity to inhibit cytochrome P450 enzymes and uridine 5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases, leading to potential drug-drug interactions with multiple common medications. The clinical significance of many of these interactions is also unclear. Furthermore, nonclinical studies have suggested the potential for CBD to cause reproductive and endocrine effects. As such, additional high-quality clinical pharmacology studies are needed to further characterize CBD's safety profile.

The objective of this study is to characterize the effects of daily CBD use at a dose within the range of what consumers are taki
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Subject signs an institutional review board (IRB) approved written informed consent and privacy language as per national regulations (e.g., Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act authorization) before any study related procedures are performed.
2. Subject is a healthy, non-smoking man or woman, 18 to 55 years of age, inclusive, who weighs at least 50 kg (110 lbs) and has a body mass index of 18.5 to 33.0 kg/m2, inclusive, at Screening and check-in (Day -1).
3. Subject has normal medical history findings, clinical laboratory results, vital sign measurements, 12-lead ECG results, and physical examination findings at screening or, if abnormal, the abnormality is not considered clinically significant (as determined and documented by the investigator or designee).
4. Subject must have a negative test result for alcohol and illicit drugs at screening and check-in (Day -1).
5. Participants must agree to refrain from using any of the following for the duration of the study: alcohol, nicotine containing products, marijuana or marijuana-derived products, hemp or hemp-derived products, including CBD (except for provided study drug), and illicit drugs of any kind.
6. Subject must test negative for severe acute respiratory syndrome corona virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) by a rapid antigen test at check-in for all study periods. If a subject's test comes back as invalid, the test can be repeated.
7. Female subjects must be of non-childbearing potential (non-childbearing potential includes post-menopausal females defined as spontaneous amenorrhea for at least 12 months with FSH in the post-menopausal range and females who have undergone a hysterectomy) or, if they are of childbearing potential, they must: 1) have negative serum HCG at screening and check-in 2) have been strictly abstinent for 1 month before check-in (Day -1) and agree to remain strictly abstinent for the duration of the study and for at least 1 month after the last application of study drug; OR 3) be practicing 2 highly effective methods of birth control (as determined by the investigator or designee; one of the methods must be a barrier technique) from Screening until at least 1 mont