Title: A Double-blind Study Evaluating the Efficacy, Safety, and Tolerability of Zorevunersen in Patients With Dravet Syndrome
Official title: EMPEROR: A Multicenter, Randomized, Double-blind, Sham-controlled, Parallel Group, Phase 3 Study Evaluating the Efficacy, Safety, and Tolerability of Zorevunersen (STK-001) in Patients With Dravet Syndrome
Status: RECRUITING. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE3.
Conditions: Dravet Syndrome
Interventions: zorevunersen (DRUG); Sham Comparator (OTHER)
Summary: The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of zorevunersen in Patients with Dravet syndrome.
Eligibility: Key Inclusion Criteria:

1. Patients must be ≥2 and \<18 years of age.
2. Patients must have a clinical diagnosis of DS confirmed by the Epilepsy Study Consortium, Inc. (ESCI) and as defined by:

   Onset, prior to 12 months (inclusive, \<13 months), of age, of recurrent focal with motor signs, hemiclonic, or generalized tonic-clonic seizures. No other known etiology causing clinical DS manifestations..
3. Patient must have a documented pathogenic, likely pathogenic variant, or variant of uncertain significance in the sodium voltage-gated channel type 1 alpha subunit (SCN1A) gene. Patients who have SCN1A testing results of Negative (no variants identified) cannot be randomized.
4. Patient must experience the required number of major motor seizures during the 6-week Observation Period. Major motor seizure types included are Seizure types included in counts are Hemiclonic, Focal with Motor Signs, Focal to Bilateral Tonic-Clonic, Generalized Tonic-Clonic, Tonic, Tonic/Atonic (Drop Attacks with fall or risk of fall), and Bilateral Clonic.
5. Patient must have used at least 2 prior interventions for seizures. These can include anti-seizure medications (ASMs), ketogenic diet and/or vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) with either lack of adequate seizure control or discontinued due to an AE(s). These interventions can be ongoing therapies.
6. Patient must be taking at least one ASM. Benzodiazepines or ASMs used on a standing basis (i.e., not as needed \[PRN\]) for any indication will be considered an ASM.
7. Patients' maintenance ASMs and interventions for seizures (i.e., ketogenic diet or VNS), as well as any marijuana- or cannabinoid-based products, must have been stable (unless adjusted for weight) during the Baseline Period.

Key Exclusion Criteria:

1. Patient has documented variant in the SCN1A gene associated with gain-of-function
2. Patient is currently treated with a maintenance ASM acting primarily as a sodium channel blocker, including but not limited to phenytoin, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, lamotrigine, lacosamide, rufinamide, or cenobamate, given the mechanism of action of zorevunersen.
3. Patient is currently treated with neuromodulation techniques (e.g., re