Title: Multiple Ascending Doses of Globalagliatin Hydrochloride in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Official title: A Phase I Placebo-controlled Study to Assess Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Globalagliatin Hydrochloride After Multiple Ascending Doses in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1.
Conditions: Hyperglycaemia (Diabetic); Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Interventions: Globalagliatin Hydrochloride (DRUG); Placebo (DRUG)
Summary: This is a phase I placebo-controlled study to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of Globalagliatin Hydrochloride (SY-004) after Multiple Ascending Doses in patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM).
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Sex：Male and Female；
2. Age：≥18，≤70；
3. Have T2DM prior to entering the trial based on the disease diagnostic criteria (WHO, 1999), and currently being treated with diet and exercise only or in combined with a stable dose of metformin for at least 8 weeks.
4. 18 kg/m2≤BMI≤35 kg/m2 at screening.
5. 7% ≤ HbA1c ≤11% at screening.
6. 7 mmol/L≤FPG≤13.3mmol/L at baseline.
7. The venous access is normal, and blood samples can be collected according to the protocol.
8. Have given written informed consent to participate in this study.
9. Are well motivated, capable, and willing to communicate with the investigator and complete all the requirements according to the protocol.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Personnel and their direct relatives of the clinical research unit and its related facilities. Direct relatives mean all biologically and by law related relatives, including spouse, parent, child and sibling,
2. Have been diagnosed with type 1 diabetes, or gestational diabetes mellitus, or a specific type of diabetes mellitus.
3. Clinically significant coronary events or symptoms within 6 months prior to study entry.
4. Clinically significant peripheral vascular disease.
5. Clinical evidence of active diabetic proliferative retinopathy.
6. Known clinically significant autonomic neuropathy as evidenced by urinary retention, orthostatic hypotension, diabetic diarrhea or gastroparesis.
7. With a history of diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis, lactic acidosis, hyperosmolar nonketotic coma history.
8. Have severe hypoglycemia occurred before the screening with unknown causes (need other people to help restore) or the frequency of hypoglycemia, such as 3 or more hypoglycemic events(blood glucose ≤3.9mmol/L) within 1 months before screening or hypoglycemia related symptoms.
9. Continuous use of insulin for more than 1 month in last year.
10. Have any disorder or unstable situation of the endocrine system, immune system or other diseases impaired blood sugar(such as Hyperthyroidism, acromegaly, Cushing syndrome) that are required treatment
11. Have significant history of past or current cardiovascular, respiratory, hepatic, renal, gastrointestinal, endocrine (oth