Title: Phase II Trial of AZD2014 in TSC1/2 Mutated or TSC1/2 Null GC Patients as Second-line Chemotherapy
Official title: Samsung Medical Center
Status: TERMINATED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE2.
Conditions: Cancer of Stomach
Interventions: AZD2014 (DRUG)
Summary: Phase II trial of AZD2014 in TSC1/2 mutated or TSC1/2 null GC patients as second-line chemotherapy
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Provision of fully informed consent prior to any study specific procedures.
2. Patients must be ≥20 years of age.
3. Advanced gastric adenocarcinoma (including GEJ) that has progressed during or after first-line therapy.

   * The 1st line regimen must have contained doublet 5-fluoropyrimidine and platinum based regimen.
   * Relapse within 6 months of completion of adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy containing doublet 5-fluoropyrimidine and platinum-based regimen could be considered as 1st line therapy.
   * Acceptable prior chemotherapy regimens for this protocol are chemotherapy regimens that include Immune Target agent therapy. (such as a pembrolizumab, ramucirumab etc)
4. Previous adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy is allowed, if completed more than 6 months prior to starting the 1st line therapy.
5. Provision of tumor sample (from eith tumor sample (from eith tumor sample (from eith tumor sample (from eith tumor sample (from eith er a resection or biopsy)er a resection or biopsy) er a resection or biopsy)er a resection or biopsy) er a resection or biopsy)er a resection or biopsy)er a resection or biopsy)er a resection or biopsy)er a resection or biopsy) er a resection or biopsy) er a resection or biopsy) er a resection or biopsy)er a resection or biopsy)
6. Patients with TSC1/2 mutation or null through the VIKTORY trial. (The VIKTORY trial uses Ion Torrent PGM to screen for a panel of cancer mutations and nanostring copy number variation panel (see addendum for the VIKTORY trial). Types of TSC1/2 mutation for this trial was defined in VIKTORY lab manual
7. Patients are willing and able to comply with the protocol for the duration of the study including undergoing treatment and scheduled visits and examinations.
8. ECOG performance status 0-2.
9. Patients must have a life expectancy ≥ 3 months from proposed first dose date.
10. Patients must have acceptable bone marrow, liver and renal function measured within 28 days prior to administration of study treatment as defined below:

    \- Haemoglobin ≥9.0 g/dL (transfusion allowed)
    * Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 x 109/L
    * White blood cells (WBC) \> 3 x 109/L
    * Platele