Title: Parent and Infant Inter(X)Action Intervention (PIXI)
Official title: Piloting an Early Intervention Program for Infants With Rare Neurogenetic Disorders
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: NA.
Conditions: Fragile X Syndrome; Angelman Syndrome; Prader-Willi Syndrome; Dup15Q Syndrome; Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy; Phelan-McDermid Syndrome; Rett Syndrome; Smith Magenis Syndrome; Williams Syndrome; Turner Syndrome; Klinefelter Syndrome; Chromosome 22q11.2 Deletion Syndrome; Tuberous Sclerosis; Down Syndrome
Interventions: Parent-Infant Inter(X)action Intervention (PIXI) (BEHAVIORAL)
Summary: The objective is to develop and test, through an iterative process, an intervention to address and support the development of infants with a confirmed diagnosis of a neurogenetic disorder with associated developmental delays or intellectual and developmental disabilities. The proposed project will capitalize and expand upon existing empirically based interventions designed to improve outcomes for infants with suspected developmental delays.

Participants will be infants with a confirmed diagnosis of a neurogenetic disorder (e.g., fragile X, Angelman, Prader-Willi, Dup15q, Phelan-McDermid, Rhett, Smith Magenis, Williams, Turner, Kleinfelter, Down syndromes, Duchenne muscular dystrophy) within the first year of life and their parents/caregivers.

The intervention, called the Parent and Infant Inter(X)action Intervention (PIXI) is a comprehensive program inclusive of parent education about early infant development and the neurogenetic disorder for which they were diagnosed, direct parent coaching around parent-child interaction, and family/parent well-being support. The protocol includes repeated comprehensive assessments of family and child functioning, along with an examination of f
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

* Infants 15 months of age or younger who have received a diagnosis which was not sought solely due to parental concerns about the infant (e.g. diagnosis due to prenatal or newborn screening, cascade testing following diagnosis of a family member).
* English must be the primary language spoken in the home because all assessment measures and intervention protocol are in English.

Exclusion Criteria:

\- Infants may not be blind or have a severe hearing impairment as the intervention and assessments are not appropriate for these children.