Title: A Study to Evaluate the Clinical Efficacy, Safety and Tolerability of ARX-F03 Sublingual Sufentanil/Triazolam NanoTab™ in Patients Undergoing an Elective Abdominal Liposuction Procedure
Official title: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Phase 2 Study to Evaluate the Clinical Efficacy, Safety and Tolerability of ARX-F03 Sublingual Sufentanil/Triazolam NanoTabs™ in Patients Undergoing an Elective Abdominal Liposuction Procedure
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE2.
Conditions: Sedation; Anxiety; Pain
Interventions: Sublingual Sufentanil/Triazolam NanoTab™ (ARX-F03) (DRUG); Placebo NanoTab™ (DRUG)
Summary: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a study medication that contains a combination of a pain medication, sufentanil, and a sedative, triazolam. This drug is being designed to provide mild sedation as well as reduce anxiety and pain before and during a procedure (in this case elective abdominal liposuction).
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Patient must have provided written informed consent to participate in the study.
2. Male or female patient between 18 to 60 (inclusive) years of age.
3. Patient is planning to undergo an elective outpatient abdominal liposuction procedure.
4. Patient must be classified as American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) class I - III.
5. Patient must have Body Mass Index \[BMI = weight (kg)/height (m2)\] between 20 and 35, inclusively.
6. Female patients of childbearing potential must be using an effective method of birth control at the time of the screening visit and for 30 days following the dosing of study medication. Acceptable methods of birth control include oral or transdermal contraceptives, condom, spermicidal foam, intrauterine device (IUD), progestin implant or injection, abstinence, vaginal ring, or sterilization of partner. The reason for non-childbearing potential, such as bilateral tubal ligation, bilateral oophorectomy, hysterectomy, or postmenopausal for ≥1 year, must be specified. Patients using hormonal forms of contraception must also be willing to use a barrier method of contraception from screening through 30 days following the dose of study medication.
7. Patient is willing to receive antibiotics as per the normal practice of the surgeon.
8. Patient understands that preoperative analgesics or anxiolytics are not permitted.
9. Patient is willing to avoid caffeine and alcohol use within 24 hours before the procedure.
10. The patient must be willing and able to understand the study procedures and the use of pain and anxiety scales, and to communicate meaningfully with the study personnel.
11. The patient must have a caregiver available to escort the patient home following the procedure.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Patient who is expected to require less than 400 cc or more than 700 cc of abdominal fat removal during the procedure.
2. Patient has previously not responded to opioid analgesics for treatment of pain.
3. Patient has previously not responded to benzodiazepines for treatment of anxiety.
4. Patient is currently taking any opioid or has taken any opioid for more than 7 consecutive days of daily use within the past 3 mo