Title: Prospective Study to Determine the Prevalence of Signs of Central Sensitization in Adults With ASD Without Intellectual Developmental Disorders
Official title: Presca : Prospective Study to Determine the Prevalence of Signs of Central Sensitization in Adults With ASD Without Intellectual Developmental Disorders
Status: RECRUITING. Type: OBSERVATIONAL. Phases: none.
Conditions: Pain Management; Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
Interventions: none
Summary: Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder (NDD) characterized by two key features: persistent deficits in communication and social interaction, and restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, and activities. Ninety-five percent of children aged 3 to 6 with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have sensory peculiarities. In adulthood, this figure remains at 90%. This atypical sensory processing has been part of the DSM diagnostic criteria since 2013.

Each sense can be affected by hypo- or hypersensitivity. In the continuum of this particular sensory processing, pain, which is defined as an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience, can be very present but also difficult to detect and manage. It is now established that there are other characteristics that impact pain in ASD: information processing time may be longer, referred to as "latency time," but there are also difficulties in representing the body schema and difficulties in identifying and/or interpreting perceptions. Expression may be atypical, and there may be an apparent lack of reaction to pain due to a lack of flexibility.

All of these characteristics themselves vary over time (with age, the menstrual cycle, lack o
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Age ≥ 18 years
2. Medical diagnosis of ASD without established intellectual developmental disorder
3. Patient affiliated with a social security system or beneficiary of such a system
4. Understanding of written French (good comprehension of self-questionnaire questions)
5. No objection from the patient to participate in the study

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Intellectual developmental disorder that prevents understanding of self-administered questionnaires
2. Individuals subject to legal or judicial protection measures or unable to express their consent