Title: Microbiota Transfer Therapy for Children and Adults With Both Pitt Hopkins Syndrome and Gastrointestinal Disorders
Official title: Microbiota Transfer Therapy for Children and Adults With Both Pitt Hopkins Syndrome and Gastrointestinal Disorders: MTP-101 P
Status: UNKNOWN. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE2.
Conditions: Pitt Hopkins Syndrome
Interventions: MTP-101P (COMBINATION_PRODUCT); Vancomycin (COMBINATION_PRODUCT); Magnesium Citrate (COMBINATION_PRODUCT); Antacid (COMBINATION_PRODUCT); Placebo MTP-101P (COMBINATION_PRODUCT); Placebo Vancomycin (COMBINATION_PRODUCT)
Summary: The investigators propose to investigate Microbiota Transfer Therapy (MTT) for treating patients with Pitt-Hopkins Syndrome (PTHS) and gastrointestinal problems (constipation, bloating, abdominal pain). MTT involves a combination of 10 days of oral vancomycin (an antibiotic to kill pathogenic bacteria), followed by 1 day of bowel cleanse using magnesium citrate, followed by 4 days of high dose MTP-101P with an antacid, followed by 12 weeks of a lower maintenance dose of MTP-101P with an antacid.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Children ages 5 to \<18 years and adults ages 18 to \< 55 years with Pitt Hopkins Syndrome (verified by genetic testing)
2. GI disorder as defined below that has lasted for at least 2 years.
3. No changes in medications, supplements, diet, or therapies in the 2 months prior to start of treatment, and no intention to change treatments during Part 1 (all participants) and Part 2 (group B) of the clinical trial. The only exception is GI medications, which may be reduced if symptoms reduce, and any changes during the study will be documented.
4. Review of last year of medical records by the study physician.
5. At least two previous trials of "standard of care" GI treatments that did not alleviate GI symptoms (constipation, diarrhea, bloating, gas, reflux, and/or abdominal pain). Standard of care treatments include laxatives, stool softeners, enemas, suppositories, or similar medications.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Antibiotics in 2 months prior to start of treatment (topical antibiotics are allowed)
2. Probiotics in 2 months prior to start of treatment, or fecal transplant in last 12 months. Foods naturally containing probiotics such as yogurt are allowed.
3. Tube feeding may be an exclusion criterion if the participant requires an unusual diet such as a liquid diet with low fiber.
4. Current severe gastrointestinal problems that require immediate hospital treatment (life-threatening)
5. Ulcerative Colitis, Crohn's Disease, diagnosed Celiac Disease, Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis, or similar conditions
6. Unstable, poor health (based on study physician's opinion), or active malignancy or infection.
7. Recent or scheduled abdominal surgeries
8. Current participation in other clinical trials
9. Females who are pregnant or who are at risk of pregnancy and sexually active with a male partner without effective birth control. We will conduct a pregnancy test on all female participants 12 years and older as part of the screening and at each clinical visit.

   Males who are sexually active with a female partner without highly effective birth control (IUD or birth control hormones).
10. Allergy or intolerance to the study medications: vancomycin, magnesiu