Title: Selinexor in Combination With R-CHOP Followed by Selinexor Maintenance for Untreated EBV-positive DLBCL Patients
Official title: A Single-arm, Multi-center, Phase Ib/II Study of Selinexor in Combination With R-CHOP Followed by Selinexor Maintenance for Untreated EBV-positive DLBCL Patients (Xplore Trial)
Status: UNKNOWN. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1, PHASE2.
Conditions: EBV-Positive Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Nos
Interventions: Selinexor (DRUG); R-CHOP Protocol (DRUG)
Summary: This is a prospective, single-arm, multi-center, phase Ib/II clinical trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of selinexor in combination with R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, and prednisone) followed by selinexor maintenance for untreated EBV-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Subjects fully understand and voluntarily participate in this study and sign informed consent
2. Age ≥18, ≤70 years, no gender limitation.
3. Histologically confirmed diagnosis of EBV-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) (more than 50% of tumor cells are positive with EBV encoded small RNAs (EBERs) in situ hybridization were considered EBERs positive).
4. Untreated patients, except for the short-time use of prednisone for controlling tumor-induced symptoms (no more than 30mg/d (or other equivalent amounts of other glucocorticoids), no more than 7 days).
5. There must be at least one measurable or evaluable lesion that meets the evaluation criteria for Lugano 2014 lymphoma: measurable lesion: Positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) or CT and/or MRI, intranodal lesions with long diameter \>1.5cm, and short diameter \>1.0cm, or extranodal lesions with long diameter \> 1.0 cm.
6. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status (PS) 0-2.
7. Expected survival ≥ 3 months.
8. Adequate function of bone marrow:

   White blood cell ≥3.0×10E9/L, absolute neutrophil count ≥1.5×10E9/L Platelet ≥100×10E9/L (Bone marrow invasive patient≥75×109/L) Hemoglobin≥ 90g/L No granulocyte growth factor, platelet, or red blood cell transfusions were received within 14 days prior to examination.
9. Adequate function of the liver and renal:

   Total bilirubin≤2×upper limit of normal (ULN) (patients with liver invasion or Gilbert syndrome ≤5×ULN) Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) ≤2.5×ULN (patients with liver invasion ≤5×ULN) Serum creatinine ≤1.5×ULN or creatinine clearance rate ≥60 mL/min
10. The patients agree to take effective contraceptive measures during the study period and till 12 months after the last administration of the study treatment.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. EBV-positive DLBCL combined with other types of lymphoma. Transformed DLBCL.
2. EBV-positive DLBCL with central nervous system invasion.
3. The patients had previously received XPO1 inhibitors, such as selinexor and so on.
4. The patients have contraindications to any drug in the combined treatment.
5. The major surgery is 