Title: Long Term Efficacy and Tolerability of a Nutraceutical Combination (Red Yeast Rice, Policosanols and Berberine) in Low-moderate Risk Hypercholesterolemic Patients: a Double-blind, Placebo Controlled Study
Official title: Long Term Efficacy and Tolerability of a Nutraceutical Combination (Red Yeast Rice, Policosanols and Berberine) in Low-moderate Risk Hypercholesterolemic Patients: a Double-blind, Placebo Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE4.
Conditions: Hypercholesterolemia
Interventions: nutraceutical combination (red yeast rice, policosanols and berberine) (OTHER)
Summary: Background: Statins are at the forefront of strategies to manage hypercholesterolemia. However, 10-15% of patients result to be intolerant to any statins, even at low daily doses and almost one- third of statin users discontinue therapy within one year. Some nutraceuticals are prescribed as lipid- lowering substances, but doubts remain about their efficacy and tolerability. In this study we investigated the effects of a nutraceutical combination consisting mainly of red yeast rice extract 200 mg (equivalent to 3 mg monacolins), berberine 500 mg and policosanols 10 mg (MBP-NC).

Methods: In this single centre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study 60 consecutive outpatients (age range: 18-60 years), with newly diagnosed primary hypercholesterolemia not previously treated, after a run-in period of 3 weeks on a stable hypolipidic diet, were randomized to receive a pill of MBP-NC (N=30) or placebo (N=30) once a day after dinner, in addition to the hypolipidic diet. The efficacy and the tolerability of the proposed nutraceutical treatment were fully assessed after 4, 12 and 24 weeks of treatment.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

* The inclusion criteria were (1) age between 18 and 60 years , (2) body mass index(BMI) between 18,5 ad 29,9 Kg/m2, (3) serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) above 150 mg/dL and an estimated 10-year cardiovascular risk \< 20% according to Framingham risk scoring.

Exclusion Criteria:

* The exclusion criteria were (1) history of cardiovascular disease or coronary risk equivalents, (2) secondary hyperlipidemia caused by diabetes mellitus, renal, liver or thyroid diseases, (3)alcohol consumption of \> 40 g/day, (4) estimated 10-year cardiovascular risk \> 20% according to Framingham risk scoring, (5) muscular diseases or abnormally elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels or drug treatment with anti-platelet, anti-inflammatory, hypolipidemic agents or hormone replacement therapy, either on-going or any time in the previous 2 months.