Title: Efficacy and Safety of Circadin® in the Treatment of Sleep Disturbances in Children With Neurodevelopment Disabilities
Official title: A Randomized, Placebo-controlled Study to Investigate the Efficacy and Safety of Circadin® to Alleviate Sleep Disturbances in Children With Neurodevelopmental Disabilities
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE3.
Conditions: Sleep Disorders
Interventions: Circadin 2/5/10 mg (DRUG); Placebo (DRUG)
Summary: The purpose of this study is to establish the efficacy and safety of Circadin in children with neurodevelopmental disorders and to determine the dose, this randomized, placebo-controlled study is planned to evaluate the efficacy of a double-blind, 13 week treatment period with Circadin 2/5mg in improving maintenance of sleep, sleep latency and additional parameters in children with neurodevelopmental disabilities. The efficacy and safety of Circadin 2/5 mg will continue to be assessed during an open-label extension period of 13 weeks.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

To be eligible for study entry, all patients must satisfy all of the following criteria at screening:

1. Must be children 2 to 17.5 years of age at Visit 2 who comply with taking the study drug
2. Must have written informed consent provided by a legal guardian and assent (if needed)
3. Must have a documented history of ASD according to or consistent with the ICD-10 (International Classification of Diseases) or DSM-5/4 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders) criteria, or neurodevelopmental disabilities caused by neurogenetic diseases (i.e., Smith-Magenis syndrome, Angelman syndrome, Bourneville's disease \[tuberous sclerosis\]) as confirmed by case note review showing that diagnosis was reached through assessment by a community pediatrician or pediatric neurologist or other health care professionals experienced in the diagnosis who took into account early developmental history and school records.
4. Must have current sleep problems including: a minimum of 3 months of impaired sleep defined as ≤6 hours of continuous sleep AND/OR ≥0.5 hour sleep latency from light off in 3 out of 5 nights based on parent reports and patient medical history. (The maintenance and latency problems do not necessarily have to be in the same 3 nights of the week.)
5. May be on a stable dose of non-excluded medication for 3 months, including anti- epileptics, anti-depressants (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors \[SSRIs\]), stimulants, all mood changing drugs and β-blockers. (Only morning administration of β-blockers is allowed since β-blockers at night have the potential to reduce endogenous melatonin levels and might cause disturbed sleep)
6. The sleep disturbance is not due to the direct physiological effects of any concomitant medications such as SSRIs, stimulants, etc.

After completing 4 weeks of sleep hygiene training (for those who need it) and 2 weeks of placebo run-in, patients will be eligible to continue the study if they comply with the following:

* Continue to fulfill sleep problem criteria (see Inclusion Criterion 4) based on the completed Sleep and Nap Diary entered into the electronic case report form
* Parents demonstrate compli