Title: Efficacy of Epidiolex in Patients With Electrical Status Epilepticus of Sleep (ESES).
Official title: Efficacy of Epidiolex in Patients With Electrical Status Epilepticus of Sleep (ESES).
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1.
Conditions: Electrical Status Epilepticus of Slow-Wave Sleep
Interventions: Epidiolex 100 mg/mL Oral Solution (DRUG); Placebo (OTHER)
Summary: This study aims to assess the efficacy of Epidiolex in patients with ESES. ESES is characterized by sleep potentiated spikes with a spike index greater than 85% (conventional definition) and 50% (new definition)1. Several drugs including: steroids, intravenous Gama globulin, Clobazam, other benzodiazepines, Valproic acid, and other anti-epileptic drugs have been tried with mixed benefits2,3. Cannabidiol (CBD) would provide a novel mechanism of action to assess for its efficacy in this population. This will be a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover clinical trial.
Eligibility: In order to be eligible to participate in this study, an individual must meet all of the following criteria:

1. Provision of signed and dated informed consent form
2. Stated willingness to comply with all study procedures and availability for the duration of the study
3. Male or female, aged 2-17 years old
4. In good general health as evidenced by medical history or diagnosed with ESES. "Good health" in relation to this study is understood as stable without current seizures requiring immediate hospitalization.
5. Ability to take oral medication and be willing to adhere to the Epidiolex/Placebo regimen
6. For females of reproductive potential: use of highly effective contraception for at least 1 month prior to screening and agreement to use such a method during study participation and for an additional 1 month after the end of oral Epidiolex administration
7. For males of reproductive potential: use of condoms or other methods to ensure effective contraception with partner

Exclusion Criteria:An individual who meets any of the following criteria will be excluded from participation in this study:

1. Previous use of cannabidiol within 4 months.
2. Pregnancy or lactation
3. Known allergic reactions to components of the Epidiolex: cannabidiol, sesame seed oil, and sucralose
4. Febrile illness within 1 month of screening
5. Treatment with another investigational drug or other intervention within 6 months
6. Current smoker or tobacco use within 6 months