Title: IK-1001 (Sodium Sulfide (Na2S) for Injection) in Subjects With Acute ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction
Official title: A Phase 2, Randomized. Double-Blind, Dose-Escalation, Dose-Expansion, Placebo-Controlled, Multi-Center Study of IK-1001 to Evaluate Safety, Pharmacokinetics , and Proof-of-Concept Efficacy in Subjects With Acute ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) Undergoing Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention
Status: WITHDRAWN. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE2.
Conditions: ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infraction
Interventions: Sodium Sulfide (Na2S) for Injection (DRUG); Placebo (DRUG)
Summary: Myocardial Infarctions (MI) are commonly known as heart attacks. An ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) is a more severe type of heart attack. Myocardial Infarctions happen when a coronary artery is partially or fully blocked suddenly by a blood clot, causing damage to at least some of the heart muscle being supplied by that artery. In a STEMI, a blood clot completely blocks the coronary artery. This can result in damage to the heart muscle that is supplied by the affected artery. The purpose of the IK-1001 STEMI Study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of an investigational study drug (IK-1001). IK-1001 is being studied to determine if it is safe and if it can reduce the amount of damage caused to the heart from a STEMI. Potential subjects may be eligible if they have been diagnosed with a STEMI and undergo a primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI, a procedure where a blocked coronary artery is unblocked during a cardiac catheterization), as well as meet other entry criteria. Up to 446 men and women, aged 18-80, will participate in this study at about 50 medical sites around the world. Study participation will last for about six months. Subjects wi
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Presentation to study hospital or institution with diagnosis of STEMI based on clinical and ECG findings (subject presented with ≥ 30 minutes of ischemic chest pain, within 12 hours of symptom onset, and has persistent ST-segment elevation of ≥ 2 mm ST-segment elevation in at least 2 contiguous leads in the ECG.
2. Age between 18 and 80 years (inclusive)
3. Signed Institutional Review Board (IRB)/Independent Ethics Committee (IEC) approved informed consent form

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Prior MI (as determined by subject history and/or ECG), cardiac surgery, or severe pericardial, congenital, cardiomyopathic, or valvular heart disease
2. Cardiac arrest within the past 28 days
3. Requirement for urgent cardiac surgery
4. Previous CABG surgery or PCI
5. Evidence of moderate or severe CHF (Killip Classes III and IV)
6. Any bradyarrhythmia that is expected to require a pacemaker through Day 4 (range 3 to 5 days), thus preventing the MRI
7. Unable to undergo a MRI (including disallowed metallic implants, unable to tolerate gadolinium contrast media, morbid obesity, or severe claustrophobia)
8. Subjects with past or current renal impairment requiring dialysis
9. Active or recent hemorrhage requiring an invasive procedure for evaluation or transfusion or hemorrhagic stroke within 6 weeks prior to presentation
10. Known or suspected aortic dissection
11. Subjects who have received treatment for asthma within the past 12 months
12. Prior history of pulmonary disease requiring chronic oxygen therapy
13. Females of childbearing potential
14. Body weight \> 150 kg or Body Mass Index (BMI) \> 40 kg/m2
15. Medical problem likely to preclude completion of the study
16. Use of investigational drugs or devices within 30 days prior to enrollment into the study
17. Any underlying medical or psychiatric condition that, in the opinion of the Investigator, makes the subject an unsuitable candidate for the study
18. Known food allergy to sulfite-containing foods and/or any drug allergies to drugs that contain sulfur