Title: An Open-Label Study of Oral NNZ-2591 in Phelan-McDermid Syndrome (PMS-001)
Official title: An Open-Label Study of the Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacokinetics of Oral NNZ-2591 in Phelan-McDermid Syndrome (PMS-001)
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE2.
Conditions: Phelan-McDermid Syndrome
Interventions: NNZ-2591 (DRUG)
Summary: A study of the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of NNZ-2591 and measures of efficacy in children and adolescents with Phelan-McDermid Syndrome.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Clinical diagnosis of PMS with a documented disease-causing genetic abnormality of SHANK3.
2. Males or females aged 3-12 years.
3. Body weight of 12 kg or higher at Screening.
4. Subjects with a Clinical Global Impression - Severity (CGI-S) score of 4 or greater at the Screening visit.
5. Not actively undergoing regression or loss of skills, defined as no persistent loss of previously acquired developmental skills for a period within 3 months of the Screening visit
6. Each subject must be able to swallow the study medication provided as a liquid solution.
7. Caregiver(s) must have sufficient English language skills.

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Body weight \< 12kg at screening
2. Clinically significant abnormalities in safety laboratory tests and vital signs at Screening.
3. Abnormal QTcF interval or prolongation at Screening.
4. Any other clinically significant finding on ECG at the Screening visit.
5. Positive for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARSCoV- 2) and previous COVID 19 infection with last 12 months that required hospitalization
6. Unstable or changes Psychotropic treatment 2 weeks prior to screening .
7. Excluded concomitant treatments.
8. Actively undergoing regression or loss of skills.
9. Unstable seizure profile.
10. Current clinically significant renal conditions and abnormalities
11. Current clinically significant cardiovascular, renal, hepatic, gastrointestinal, respiratory, endocrine disease, or clinically significant organ impairment.
12. Current clinically significant hypo or hyperthyroidism, Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes mellitus requiring insulin (whether well controlled or uncontrolled), or uncontrolled Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes.
13. Has planned surgery during the study.
14. History of, or current, cerebrovascular disease or brain trauma.
15. History of, or current catatonia or catatonia-like symptoms.
16. History of, or current, malignancy.
17. Current major or persistent depressive disorder (including bipolar depression).
18. Significant, uncorrected visual or uncorrected hearing impairment.
19. Allergy to strawberry.
20. Positive pregnancy test
21. Subject is judged by the Investigator or Medical Monit