Title: A Multicenter, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Phase 2 Study to Evaluate the Clinical Efficacy, Safety, and Tolerability of ARX-F01 Sublingual Sufentanil in Patients Undergoing Major Abdominal Surgery
Official title: A Multicenter, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Phase 2 Study to Evaluate the Clinical Efficacy, Safety, and Tolerability of ARX-F01 Sublingual Sufentanil in Patients Undergoing Major Abdominal Surgery
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE2.
Conditions: Major Upper or Lower Abdominal Surgery
Interventions: Oral sufentanil (DRUG); Placebo (DRUG)
Summary: The purpose of this study is to evaluate dosages of ARX-F01 (opioid pain medication) versus a placebo (or sugar pill) for the treatment of post-operative pain in subjects following abdominal surgery. We hypothesize that subjects receiving placebo will have poor pain relief and will drop out of the study sooner and more often than the ARX-F01 treated subjects.
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria at Screening:

1. Male or female patients between 18 to 80 years of age.
2. Patient is scheduled to undergo an upper or lower abdominal surgery under general anesthesia.
3. Patient must be classified as American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) class I - III.
4. Patient must have Body Mass Index \[BMI = weight (kg)/height (m2)\] between 18 and 39, inclusively.
5. Female patients of childbearing potential must be using an effective method of birth control from the screening visit through the end of study. Acceptable methods of birth control include oral or transdermal contraceptives, condom, spermicidal foam, intrauterine device (IUD), progestin implant or injection, abstinence, vaginal ring, or sterilization of partner. The reason for non-childbearing potential, such as bilateral tubal ligation, bilateral oophorectomy, hysterectomy, or postmenopausal for ≥1 year, must be specified in the patient's case report form (CRF).
6. The patient must be willing and able to understand the study procedures and the use of pain scales, and to communicate meaningfully with the study personnel.
7. The patient must provide written informed consent and sign the Informed Consent

Exclusion Criteria at Screening:

1. Patient is scheduled to undergo a laparoscopically-assisted abdominal surgery.
2. Patient has previously not responded to opioid analgesics for treatment of pain.
3. Patient is currently taking or has taken an opioid for more than 30 consecutive days of daily use at a daily dose equivalent to greater than 15 mg morphine within the past 3 months prior to surgery (e.g. more than 3 doses per day of Vicodin®, Norco®, Lortab® with 5 mg hydrocodone per tablet).
4. Patient has an allergy or hypersensitivity to opioids.
5. Patient currently has sleep apnea that has been documented by a sleep laboratory study.
6. Patient has any screening laboratory test value outside the laboratory normal range which is considered clinically significant by the Investigator.
7. Patient is a woman who is pregnant or lactating.
8. Patient has psychiatric disease or encephalopathy severe enough to prevent patient from providing reliable study documentation.
9. Patient, in the 