Title: Efficacy of Locally Delivred 1.2% Rosuvastatin Gel in Chronic Periodontitis
Official title: Efficacy of Locally Delivered 1.2% Rosuvastatin Gel in Non Surgical Treatment of Chronic Periodontitis Patients: A Randomised Clinical Control Trial.
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE2, PHASE3.
Conditions: Chronic Periodontitis
Interventions: Rosuvastatin (DRUG)
Summary: BACKGROUND: Chronic periodontitis (CP) is an inflammatory condition affecting tooth supporting tissues and alveolar bone that surround the tooth leading to formation of deepend gingival sulcus that is highly prone to pathologic changes, ultimately bone resorption and tooth loss. In the literature, several pharmacologic agents have been administration via local delivery route, directly into diseased sites affirming greater improvement in periodontal status. Therefore, present study was conducted to determine the clinical effectiveness of subgingivally delivered 1.2% Rosuvastatin gel incorporated into an methylcellulose vehicle for its controlled release into intrabony defect sites in adjunct to scaling and root planing for treatment of chronic periodontitis patients.

MATERIAL AND METHODS: Sixty five patients were categorized into two treatment groups: group I -SRP plus RSV, 1.2 mg and group II -SRP plus placebo. Clinical parameters included modified sulcus bleeding index (mSBI), probing depth (PD), and clinical attachment level (CAL), were recorded at baseline before SRP and at 1, 3, 4, and 6 months. Radiologic assessment of intrabony defect (IBD) fill was analysed at baseline and 
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

* Systemically sound with moderate probing depth (PD) of 5- 6 mm or clinical attachment loss (CAL) of 4 - 6 mm) or deep pockets (PD ≥ 7 mm or CAL of 6 - 9 mm) and vertical bone loss ≥ 3 mm on intraoral periapical radiographs.
* Subjects with ≥ 20 teeth with no history of periodontal therapy in the preceding 6 months nor under any antibiotic therapy were included in the study.

Exclusion Criteria:

* Patients on systemic statin therapy with known or suspected allergy to the RSV group, patients with any other forms of periodontitis, use of tobacoo in any form, smokers, alcoholics, immune-compromised and systemically unhealthy patients, and pregnant or lactating females were excluded.