Title: An Open Label, Exploratory Study to Investigate the Treatment Effect of Glatiramer Acetate on Girls Woth Rett Syndrome
Official title: An Open Label, Exploratory Study to Investigate the Treatment Effect og Glatiramer Acetate (Copaxone ®) on Girls Woth Rett Syndrome
Status: UNKNOWN. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE1.
Conditions: Rett Syndrome
Interventions: Glatiramer Acetate (Copaxone®) (DRUG)
Summary: Primary Objective: To test the hypothesis that 6 months treatment with glatiramer acetate (GA) decreases epileptiform activity in young girls with Rett syndrome.

Primary Safety Objective:To evaluate the safety and tolerability of 6 months treatment with GA in these patients.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To test the hypothesis that 6 months treatment with glatiramer acetate (GA) improves respiratory dysfunction.
2. To evaluate the effect of GA treatment on general behaviour communication, hand stereotyping, feeding, sleep and other autonomic symptoms: gastrointestinal and cardiac.
3. To assess the effect of GA treatment on bodily development.

Primary Endpoint:Improvement of epileptiform activity as recorded in a 24-hours EEG.

Primary Safety Endpoint:Frequency and severity of treatment-related AEs (including safety lab parameters).

Secondary Endpoints:

1. Improvement in the scoring of breath holds and hyperventilation, as measured with non-invasive respiratory inductance plethysmography (NoxT3 device) and parents' diaries.
2. Changes in general behaviour, communication, feeding and motor skills as assessed by the investigator (based on Kerr and Naidu validated severity scores) and
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Females, age 6-15 years (inclusive).
2. Patients whose parents or legal custodians have provided written informed consent to participate in the study.
3. A diagnosis of RTT (classical or variant), defined according to the internationally agreed 2010 RetSearch criteria \[4\].
4. Evidence of a genetically defined pathological change in the MECP2 gene (point mutation or deletion)
5. Patients with known epileptiform activity as recorded on EEG.
6. Blood pressure and heart rate within normal limits (blood pressure: systolic 90-140 mmHg; diastolic 50-90 mmHg, heart rate 40-120 beats per minute
7. An electrocardiogram (ECG) which, according to the Investigator's judgment does not contraindicate participation in the study.
8. No clinically significant abnormalities in haematology, blood chemistry lab tests at screening.
9. Parents must be able to understand the requirements of the study and must be willing to comply with the requirements of the study

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Any medical problem or chronic illness beyond those known to be associated with Rett Syndrome which, in the investigator's judgment, contraindicates administration of the study medication.
2. Severe respiratory dysfunction (defined as tracheostomy and/or chronic oxygen therapy at least 4 hours a day and/or repeated aspiration pneumonia - at least 4 in the last year).
3. Intractable seizures that started during the last 6 months prior to beginning of the study.
4. Known hypersensitivity to glatiramer or mannitol.
5. Participation in another clinical study.
6. Parents of a patient who are unable to communicate well with the investigator and staff and comply with study procedures and follow-up
7. Parents of a patient who are unwilling to sign consent form.