Title: Empirical Intravenous Beta-Lactam Plus Metronidazole Vs Oral Cefixime Plus Metronidazole for the Treatment of Liver Abscess
Official title: Comparison of Empirical Intravenous Beta-Lactam Antimicrobials Plus Metronidazole and Oral Cefixime Plus Metronidazole Therapy for the Treatment of Liver Abscess: an Open Label Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial
Status: RECRUITING. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE3.
Conditions: Liver Abscess
Interventions: Intravenous beta-lactam antimicrobial for 2 weeks Plus Intravenous Metronidazole (750 mg q 8 hourly) for 2 weeks (DRUG); Tablet Cefixime (200 mg q 12 hourly) for 2 weeks Plus Tablet Metronidazole (800 mg q 8 hourly) for 2 weeks (DRUG); Standard medical care (OTHER)
Summary: Liver abscess (LA) is potentially life threatening medical emergency requiring prompt medical intervention. The backbone of therapy is prompt empirical antimicrobial with or without percutaneous drainage/ aspiration of the abscess. The standard care for liver abscess includes empirical antimicrobials consisting both antibacterial and amoebicidal agents along with percutaneous drainage or aspiration of the collection. The antimicrobial regimen should cover against E. histolytica until microbial etiology is established or liver abscess of amoebic etiology is ruled out. But still there is no straightforward general agreement or evidence based on clinical studies regarding the standard protocol for empirical antimicrobials concerning choice, route of administration or duration of antimicrobials therapy. Most of the experts preferred intravenous antimicrobials over oral antimicrobials for the treatment of liver abscess with or without complication. But, there is no clinical trial evidence to support the rational of using intravenous antibiotics up front instead of oral antimicrobials. Recently published institutional study also suggested that empirical oral antimicrobials (Cefexime/Cipr
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria: All symptomatic patients with liver abscess verified by radiological imaging, either by computed tomography (CT) scan or ultrasound (USG), regardless of gender (male or female) and age ≥ 18 years, will be screened for registration in the study.

\-

Exclusion Criteria: Patients with past history of liver abscess, chronic kidney disease (CKD), hypersensitivity to either Metronidazole or Cefixime or Beta-lactam antimicrobials will not be allowed to participate in the study. Patients with organ dysfunction with shock (blood pressure \< 90/60 mmHg), acute respiratory distress syndrome requiring oxygen therapy (PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 300 or SpO2 ≤92%), encephalopathy (altered sensorium with GCS \< 15), acute kidney injury (increase in serum creatinine to ≥ 1.5 times from the baseline or serum creatinine ≥ 1.5) and not able to take orally will not be considered for participation in the study. Patients who are pregnant, have already received antimicrobials for more than 48 hours before to admission, or are receiving blood thinners such as antiplatelets or anticoagulants within 4 weeks of presentation and are unwilling to provide informed consent will also be excluded from the trial.

\-