Title: Investigate Efficacy and Safety of Carisbamate as Adjunctive Treatment for Seizures Associated With LGS in Children and Adults
Official title: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study to Investigate the Efficacy and Safety of Carisbamate (YKP509) as Adjunctive Treatment for Seizures Associated With Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome in Children and Adults, With Optional Open-Label Extension
Status: RECRUITING. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE3.
Conditions: Seizures; Lennox Gastaut Syndrome
Interventions: Carisbamate (DRUG)
Summary: The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of carisbamate (YKP509) as adjunctive treatment in reducing the number of drop seizures (tonic, atonic, and tonic-clonic) compared with placebo in pediatric and adult subjects (age 4-55 years) diagnosed with Lennox Gastaut Syndrome (LGS).
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Subject must have a documented history of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome by:

   1. Evidence of more than one type of seizure, of which at least one should be an atonic or tonic seizure
   2. History of an electroencephalogram (EEG) reporting diagnostic criteria for LGS (abnormal background activity accompanied by slow, spike and wave pattern \<3.0 Hz)
   3. History of developmental delay
2. Male or female subjects
3. Subjects must be age 4-55 years at the time of consent/assent
4. Must have been \<11 years old at the onset of LGS
5. Subjects must have experienced at least 2 drop seizures with potential to fall (tonic, atonic, tonic-clonic) during the 4-week Baseline period preceding randomization (minimum of 4 drop seizures in the first two weeks and 4 in the last two weeks). Drop seizures are defined as a seizure involving the entire body, trunk, or head that led or could have led to a fall, injury, slumping in a chair, or hitting the subject's head on a surface. All drop seizure types must be countable (either as isolated seizures or as countable isolated seizures in a cluster).
6. Subjects must have been receiving 1 to 4 concomitant anti-seizure medications (ASMs) at a stable dose for at least 4 weeks before Visit 1
7. If not taking Epidiolex, subjects may take other approved cannabidiol or over the counter cannabidiol products. If taking cannabidiol other than Epidiolex, consult Medical Monitor to determine if it counts as a concomitant ASM.
8. Dietary therapy and any CNS stimulator settings must be stable for 4 weeks prior to baseline and maintain stable regimen throughout the study. The dietary therapy and CNS stimulators are not counted as an ASM.
9. Parents or caregivers must be able to keep accurate seizure diaries
10. Subject is either not of childbearing potential, defined as premenarchal, postmenopausal for at least 1 year or surgically sterile (bilateral tubal ligation, bilateral oophorectomy, or hysterectomy), if of childbearing potential, must comply with an acceptable method of birth control during the study, for at least 4 weeks prior to study entry and for 4 weeks following completion of the study, if able.
11. Subject and/or 