Title: Genotype, Phenotype, and Disease Progression of Developmental Epileptic Encephalopathy With Onset Before 2 Years of Age
Official title: Genotype, Phenotype, and Disease Progression of Developmental Epileptic Encephalopathy With Onset Before 2 Years of Age
Status: RECRUITING. Type: OBSERVATIONAL. Phases: none.
Conditions: Epilepsy; Seizure; Child Development; Gene Abnormality; Early Onset Disorder
Interventions: none
Summary: According to estimates by the World Health Organization in 2019, more than 50 million people around the world have epilepsy. Nearly 80% of patients with epilepsy live in developing countries. Among them, children under 2 years old are the group with the highest incidence of epilepsy, and at the same time, the most dangerous epilepsy groups are also likely to start at these ages. World medical literature on epileptic encephalopathy and early-onset development before 2 years of age records that 71% of children have severe intellectual disability and 60% of children show signs of autism spectrum disorder, of which Children with epileptic and developmental encephalopathy due to genetic causes are at higher risk of developing neurodevelopmental disorders than children with epileptic and developmental encephalopathy due to other causes. However, in Vietnam, there is no research on this topic.

The question is what are the phenotypes, genotypes, and progression after 2 years of follow-up of Vietnamese children with epileptic and developmental encephalopathy with onset before 2 years of age?
Eligibility: Inclusion Criteria:

1. Diagnosed with Early infantile developmental and epileptic encephalopathy or Epilepsy of infancy with migrating focal seizures or infantile spasms syndrome or severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy or Epilepsy with myoclonic-atonic seizures
2. Diagnosed with drug-resistant epilepsy according to ILAE 2010 criteria
3. Age at the start of participating in the study ranged from 0 to 23 months old
4. Relatives agree to participate in the research
5. There is no medical history of any diagnosis of hypoxic encephalopathy or inflammatory encephalopathy or traumatic encephalopathy or cerebral infarction or cerebral hemorrhage.

Exclusion Criteria:

Patients were removed from the study when they were lost to follow-up at 6 months

\-