Title: The TRAfermin in Neuropathic Diabetic Foot Ulcer Study - Northern Europe The TRANS-North Study
Official title: A Phase III, Double-Blind, Placebo Controlled, Parallel Group, International, Multicenter Study of 12 Weeks Treatment With Trafermin 0.01% Spray in Patients With Diabetic Foot Ulcer of Neuropathic Origin
Status: COMPLETED. Type: INTERVENTIONAL. Phases: PHASE3.
Conditions: Diabetic Foot Ulcer of Neuropathic Origin
Interventions: Trafermin 0.01% spray (DRUG)
Summary: Trafermin is a recombinant human basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF; original development code, KCB-1), which is manufactured by genetic engineering using Escherichia coli by Kaken Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan). Trafermin 0.01% cutaneous spray product kit consisting of a glass bottle containing lyophilized trafermin, a glass bottle with solvent for solution and a spray part to fit the glass bottle after reconstitution of the final product.

We conduct a multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel-group, multicentre study consisting of a placebo run-in phase (2w), a treatment phase (max. 12w) and a follow-up phase (3mo+6mo). The primary objective of the study is to demonstrate a superior wound closure rate of diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) of neuropathic origin after a maximum of 12 weeks topical daily application of trafermin 0.01% spray compared with placebo, in addition to best local care (off-loading, dressings). Approximately 210 patients will be randomized and it is planned that this study will be conducted at approximately 40 investigational sites in Europe.
Eligibility: Selection Criteria

Patients who fulfill all of the following criteria (and none of the exclusion criteria described below) are eligible to enter the placebo run-in phase of the study:

1. Provide written informed consent to participate.
2. Male or female patients age 18 years or older.
3. Type 1 or 2 diabetes.
4. A single full-thickness DFU that has been present for at least 2 weeks.
5. DFU wound surface area below or equal 34 cm2 on the target foot.
6. No exposure of bone in the target DFU.
7. Neuropathy confirmed by loss of protective sensation to monofilament test (Semmes-Weinstein 5.07 monofilament).
8. No predominant ischemia requiring further exploration or treatment, and confirmed by either:

   * ABPI on the target leg (\>0.9; below or equal 1.3) or if ABPI is \>1.3 or is not assessable,TBPI on target foot ³above or equal 0.7, OR
   * ABPI on target leg (above or equal 0.7 - below or equal 0.9) or if ABPI is \>1.3 or is not assessable, TBPI on target foot \<0.7, AND a toe blood pressure \>40 mmHg

Inclusion Criteria

Patients who fulfill all of the following criteria are eligible for randomization:

1. All of the selection criteria and none of the exclusion criteria are met.
2. Completed the 2-week placebo run-in period during which they were compliant to off-loading and to daily application of placebo spray, without major protocol violation. Compliance with the placebo run-in treatment regimen must be "excellent" or "acceptable".
3. Glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) below or equal 10% (from a blood sample taken during the placebo run-in period).
4. Non-infected target foot DFU of confirmed neuropathic origin with:

   * ABPI on the target leg (\>0.9; below or equal 1.3) or if ABPI is \>1.3 or is not assessable, TBPI on target foot above or equal 0.7, OR
   * ABPI on target leg (above or equal 0.7 - below or equal 0.9) or if ABPI is \>1.3 or is not assessable, TBPI on target foot \<0.7, AND a toe blood pressure \>40 mmHg
5. Target DFU appropriately debrided (\<10% black and at least 50% of red/pink on a colorimetric scale)
6. Target DFU of grade A1 or A2 on the University of Texas Wound Classification System or of Grade 1 or 2 of the Wagner classification